
Now, let's turn to Warehouse Management Systems or WMS.
Whenever you talk about WMS, you also
need to talk about automation that
happens within the warehouse as well, because they're
really tightly coupled.
So what is a WMS?
WMS is a software system or a suite
of systems that facilitates all aspects of operations
within a warehouse or DC and integrates those operations
with other systems.
Now, it's important to specify that a WMS is not
the same thing as an inventory management system.
So we're studying inventory replenishment policies,
setting trigger points, safety stock levels.
All of those things--
that is not part of a WMS.
That's usually part of an inventory management module
that is typically part of the ERP.
So setting the inventory levels and managing the warehouse--
it seems like they'd be in one package.
They're not.
They're two separate things.
The WMS cares about the physical things
happening within the facility.
The IMS, or the Inventory Management System,
is all about setting the inventory levels, the stocking
levels, replenishment policies, safety stock, trigger points,
all of those things we talked about in SC1x.
But they compliment each other, and they
should talk to each other.
But they're very different things.
OK.
Benefits of a WMS is, it gives you real time stock visibility.
It allows you to trace your product through the facility,
improve the labor productivity-- and labor is the biggest cost
within a warehouse.
It reduces the number of mis-picks
and hopefully returns.
It leads to more accurate reporting,
improved responsiveness to your customers,
greater data visibility, improved customer service,
and-- the big one--
it minimizes paperwork.
That's the real thing it tries to eliminate,
because paperwork usually causes problems.
So the more you can automate something and make
it paperless, the better.
So as I said, it's closely connected to automation,
in terms of material handling as well as any interface that
reduces the amount of paper--
paperless device interfaces.
And so let me start with that.
And then, I'll come back to the WMS.
So when we talk about warehouse automation,
you can think of three main categories.
The first category are these automatic identification
technologies such as a barcode or a barcode scanner,
or RFID tags, Radio Frequency tags,
and antenna that pick up their signals,
or smartcards and magnetic stripes,
or a vision system that captures the characteristics
of a product, a box, or a pallet.
Now, when we talk about barcodes and RFID tags,
these are the most common.
So on the left, I show a barcode.
We've all seen these before.
And on the right, I show just an example of an RFID tag.
They're similar in that they contain information
about the thing that they're tagged,
but they're very different in a couple of aspects.
A barcode will be identical for a single SKU.
So if I have 1,000 items of the same SKU,
they'll have the same barcode, because that's SKU-specific.
RFID gives me more capability.
It actually can be specific to that item.
So if I need to know and tag each item, not just the SKU,
then RFID tags might make sense.
Now, each way you tag it, you've got to have a reader.
So this shows a barcode handheld reader
as well as on the bottom picture,
where the reader is actually fixed and the products go by.
And you'll see this in any large sorting center.
So for example, a parcel delivery
will have this because the boxes are going by,
and you read and scan it.
So the scanners stay still while the box or the products move.
So you need to have some automation
to identify the different packages.
Barcode is the most common by far.
RFID is being used in certain aspects,
mainly when you need to know something
specific about that item.
Now, corresponding to this, you need
to have some kind of communication technologies.
So you have the identification, but then you've
got to be able to communicate that out to either the system
or to the users.
And so there are a bunch of different ways you can do this.
One that we've talked about in previous classes
is the pick-to-light systems.
This is where, when I'm picking an order,
the light will come on the bin down the main pick line where
I'm supposed to pick from.
So what it's doing is communicating to me,
the picker, where I need to go.
So you have identification technologies,
you have some communication technologies,
and then there are always material handling technologies.
And just think of any warehouse.
You're going to have some kind of automation
there to some degree.
And some of the more common ones are
carousels where a product moves around to the picker.
You might have conveyors such as what I showed in the picture
on the bottom right, where packages
are moving on conveyor belts.
Flow racks-- where things, kind of, fall down to you
and it's easier to pick from, or automated storage
and retrieval systems.
And these are much more highly automated systems.
So you have different levels of automation in the warehouse,
and this also gets into the type of warehousing
that you might want to use.
So let me just step back even a step further and talk
about warehousing options.
So on the vertical axis, I have the total cost of the company,
and on the horizontal axis is the system throughput,
the volume, the amount of stuff that I'm flowing.
If that's very low, then your lowest-cost option
might be to outsource it or use public warehousing.
However, you're going to hit a point as your volume increases,
as your throughput increases, where leased warehousing makes
more sense.
And then, you can see another break point
where, as your volume increases even more,
it might make sense now to have private warehousing
and have some kind of manual material handling system.
And then, as this system throughput increases even more,
it makes sense to start automating things.
So what we have here are three break-even points.
And based on the throughput, it might make sense for you
to change your warehousing option.
Now, what's interesting and the reason why I bring this up
is, the automation in warehousing
is changing dramatically.
As more robotics are being introduced,
it's actually lowering that break point.
And so the system throughput trigger point
is getting smaller and smaller, and you're
seeing more automation in smaller warehouses.
Because what used to be the case if you're
going to automate a warehouse, it
would take multimillion dollars and a lot of time.
And the problem with automation is that it
tends to be not flexible.
So you're, kind of, fixed.
It's, kind of, rigid.
Now, that's changing when you have more robotics, so you're
adding the flexibility with the ability
to go at a smaller scale.
So this is changing.
So I bring that up because it ties into your automation,
which ties into your WMS.
So now, let's go back to the WMS.
What is in this warehouse management system?
Well, it, kind of, follows the process of a warehouse, where
you have an order that is received,
put away into storage, perhaps, picked for an order,
is set to shipping, and then sent out.
So under the order processing, their system
needs to be able to check and batch these orders
as they come, allocate how they're going to be fulfilled,
and maybe have an auto replenishment,
where you might have repetitive orders.
In receiving, it should be able to handle
these advanced shipping notices--
so receive those in so you know what's coming down
the pipeline, track your inbound shipments,
manage your appointment scheduling on the inbound dock,
verify purchase orders, and handle returns processing.
Now, it's receiving, so usually you're
going to be handling product coming in.
But a lot of the times, returns come back
and come in a reverse flow.
So you need to be able to handle that.
And WMS should be able to capture that.
During the put-away process, the big one
here is the slotting decision.
What is slotting?
That's determining where each item should be placed.
And so you can do this in many different strategies,
whether it's random or directed.
And then, you can also think about the WMS routing.
So as I put a pallet away, let's say,
I'm thinking about how I'm going to now do
a pickup for replenishment.
And maybe I want to minimize those routes.
It's called dual cycling.
So put away, there's a lot of strategy a little bit
of optimization there.
For the picking, same thing.
Picking constitutes about 50% to 60%
of the costs in a warehouse-- of the labor costs,
and so there's a lot of work that a WMS can do here.
The big thing it does is figure out
how the picking should be done.
And there are all sorts of different strategies
that you can have this done.
It can be individual pickers.
You can batch things together.
You can have a zone-type picking or wave picking.
So these are all strategies that the WMS can employ,
and it's all about minimizing the amount of labor
required to pick an order.
You can also have some assemblying and kitting.
The pick-to-light, pick-to-voice systems--
that ties in now to the automation.
And then, at the shipping level, this
is all about sequencing the pallets as they get there.
How do I plan the load on the truck?
How do I layer my pallets?
And then, also the management of the trailers
on the outbound side.
In the labor management side, WMS
will usually provide a really good way
of measuring performance, both at the individual level
and at the team level.
What's really interesting-- a lot of warehouses
operate on teams.
And so your team gets evaluated, and a lot
of compensation for some companies
is based on how well your team does.
So you want to be able to capture that performance as
well.
And then, it also should include scheduling
for labors and time standards.
And one of the most important things
about warehouse management is to know how I'm benchmarking.
How many pallets am I loading per hour?
How many cases am I picking?
And so establishing these time standards
allows you to measure the performance of individuals
and teams.
And then, the last piece is that equipment support.
One-- it's that interface back to all that automated equipment
I talked about, but also managing the maintenance
of that equipment.
So you can see that WMS is pretty inclusive.
It does everything within this four walls.
Again, what it is not doing?
It is not determining my inventory levels.
That's done separately.
The WMS is all about managing and optimizing the operations
within the warehouse or the DC.