
Now that we've thought about the different trade-offs involved
in coming up with, say, the best possible split on one variable,
what we're going to do in this segment
is think about how to add and extend to other variables
using model recursion.
So we're going to take this one split point that we made
and now try and take all the homes to the left and all
the homes to the right and further improve them.

So what we'll do next is add recursion to this.
And the idea is that we're going to keep
repeating this process down each of these bins
to see if there's another variable that could help us
discriminate these two sides.
So we did a pretty nice job here on the right side.
Now we want to find another variable that
will help us discriminate between these six
homes in New York and the 99 homes in San Francisco.
Likewise, on the left side we did a decent job,
but we still need a lot of work here.
We need to find another variable in this data set that
will help us correctly identify the homes from New York
and correctly identify the homes from San Francisco.
So to do this, the best split will actually
differ depending on what data are in each side.
So the homes to the right actually
are better discriminated just by the overall price.
So if we looked at these homes, we
can actually add price as a second variable
to try and improve the predictions in this zone.
And, similarly, on this side, the price per square foot
is a better second proxy which would help
us differentiate these homes.
So if we drew a split point for the price,
we can see that there is just a little chunk of homes
here in New York that are lower priced.
They happen to be actually very low price
for that high elevation set of homes that we
looked at on the right side.
And for the low elevation set of homes,
we can draw another split point for a price per square foot.
We're going to get mostly blue points to the right and mostly
green points to the left.
And so, what this leads to is a growing tree.
So the first thing we did was we built a split point
with the elevation at 92 feet.
So all the homes to the right go to the right side
and all the homes to the left go to the left side.
Then what we do is we use the price per square foot
to help us further discriminate which homes are likely to be
from New York and which homes are likely to be
from San Francisco to the left.
Similarly with price-- and it's actually a little bit different
here.
What we're going to do is predict that homes to the left
are actually from New York here, because there's
just that little blip of blue on the left side, and then homes
to the right are going to be from San Francisco.
Then we can keep growing the tree out.
And so, we're ending up with more and more accurate results
as we go.
So just by splitting this one layer deeper,
the accuracy went up to 84%.
So we're having something here-- which is almost 50-50--
mostly blue here, mostly blue here and very, very green here.
So we're getting closer and closer.
As we get to these next sets of nodes,
we want to be getting to completely green and completely
blue, meaning that if you follow this set of rules
down the path to get to this circle,
you would actually be really good at predicting
whether a home is just from New York
or just from San Francisco.

Let's trace this tree back.
Let's do an example to get to this green circle.
This green circle here means that if you had a home,
you would check its elevation.
If it's higher than a certain elevation-- like 92 feet--
what we would do is predict that it's probably
from San Francisco, but we would check
next to see what its total price was.
If it's above a certain value, we'd
predict that it's from San Francisco
and if it's below a certain value,
we'd predict it's likely to be from New York.
So you can kind of see how you follow these paths down
with the rules, looking at the specific characteristics
of just one home at a time, to see
whether something is likely to come from one
side or the other side.
And the circles at the bottom tell us how many homes actually
fit those characteristics that are from New York
or from San Francisco.
You can keep growing this tree down
using the best possible discriminating factors.
So homes that are built later are
more likely to be from San Francisco
than homes that are built earlier.
So we're getting more and more blue dots.
You can use elevation again on this side
to show that homes that are now above a certain lower elevation
are very likely to be from San Francisco.
You can see where this is going.
What we're doing is we're adding more and more characteristics
down this classification tree to try and get
to exclusively green and exclusively blue dots.
If you keep growing the tree, you can add a few more layers
and get to 96% accuracy.
And you start seeing that these dots turn exclusively
green and exclusively blue.
They're still not perfect accuracy
here for some of these, and that's OK.
That means that we're not perfect at actually
being able to discriminate every single thing into a little bin.
But you could even get it to 100%
if you wanted to by adding more and more rules.
So if we add more layers, we'll get to 100% accuracy.
But you have to follow some really complex, convoluted set
of rules to classify this home as exclusively blue,
or classify this home as exclusively green
or exclusively blue.
What does this mean?
Oh, gosh.
As we go deeper and deeper, we're
adding really very specific rules just
for one or two homes.
And when we do that, we know we're probably
doing something that's a little bit overfitting.
We're probably looking at our data here
and we're looking at very specific characteristics
of even just one home at a time and making a lot of rules
to get there.
These rules are probably not going
to be generalizable for other homes in the future,
so we have to think about that carefully and make sure that we
don't overfit our model.
These nodes at the end are called leaf nodes.
And so, our decision tree will then classify homes
in each of these leaf nodes with whichever class
is in the majority.
So if, say, for example, you had mostly green,
it would say every home that comes down
this path is going to be green.
And if this were mostly blue and not just completely blue,
you'd say every home in here is going to be blue.

What you can do is think about this classification tree
as taking a set of input homes down each branch.
And what we do is we follow--
to make predictions in the future--
down the correct branch based on the characteristics
of each of the homes.
So you follow these rules and the homes
drop down one branch or the other,
depending on their value for a specific characteristic.
So the first branch point, remember, was elevation.
So points to the left will be the homes that
come into our system that we're trying to make predictions
for that have an elevation of below 92 feet,
and homes to the right will be homes with an elevation
above 91 feet.
You can follow this and you can see--
as you go down and look down, you
can see to the right mostly points end
up being green and most--
very few points end up being blue to the left on the bottom.
If you look down the other branch,
homes with a low elevation are mostly blue
and then some of them are green.
Each one of these branch points you can follow down and see
where they fall--
where the homes would fall based on a specific rule.
And if you keep going down and down, what we can do as we said
is get 100% accuracy from our training data that we used.
Now, the thing that we want to do, though,
is see if we can actually make generalizable predictions
for the future.
So let's take a brand new set of homes from New York and San
Francisco as a reality check using this specific set
of rules that we made before.
Let's see how this test data set does.

So if we let all the homes fall through our model
as they would fall, based on the rules
that we made before from our model, what we'll do
is we'll see that we actually do a decent job
but we don't do a perfect job.
We get 89.7% accuracy.
So there are some homes that are misclassified down
these paths that should have been classified as a New York
home that are from San Francisco,
and some that are down this path--
these paths-- that are actually misclassified as San Francisco
when they're really from New York.
And this is due to overfitting.
Our model learned to treat every single detail in the training
data set as important, even though there
were some details that probably weren't important.
We made really complicated sets of steps to get down
to just a home at a time.
And when you do something like that
and you grow these trees out very,
very deep, what ends up happening
is we're very likely to be just making rules for one
or two homes that aren't very generalizable.
So to recap, machine learning helps us identify patterns
in our data sets.
It does this statistically in using algorithms to help us
unearth boundaries in our data sets.
And by setting those boundaries using historical data,
then what we can do is inform our future predictions
from all the historical data we've seen.
One method we looked at was a decision tree,
and that helped us make predictions using
a series of if then statements.
And remember those if then statements
were built from our historical data
in a pretty complicated model, and they
helped us identify boundaries and define patterns
for how to classify future data points that
came through our system.
And we saw, unfortunately, that there
was some overfitting with the approach
that we took with a really deep tree.
And so, there were some distinctions
that we made that really didn't make a difference.
And, in fact, they might have hurt
our overall generalizability of the model, the ability
of the model to be general enough so that it can make
very good predictions for normal data that comes through
in the future.
And so, you can check if your model overfits
by having test data flow through the model that you made.
With that, we'll leave it here and we'll
come back with some slides.