
In this segment, we're going to talk about NoSQL database
technologies.
NoSQL databases are different than all
of the relational database technologies
that we've talked to up until this point in the course.
They relate to a non-SQL, non-relational database
technology set.
The whole premise of NoSQL databases
comes from one major problem.
When relational database tables get very big,
like millions, and millions, and millions of records
big, joining two tables together is really
time consuming in a normalized relational database system.
So when, for example, if you have a very large orders
table and a very large customer table, this just becomes very,
very time consuming if you don't have enough indexes
in the right places.
And even if you do, to actually execute
queries in a timely fashion.
NoSQL databases offer an alternative solution to these.
And the whole idea of NoSQL databases
is that data are not stored in explicit table structures
with relationships.
Instead, the database is designed with simple reads
and writes in mind.
For example, if you wanted to have all of the data
that you needed for a customer order on a web page
and you needed to include something about the customer's
shipping address in that page, you
could imagine you could have a table that's
designed and prejoined with all the data you
need for that specific type of query.
So it's designed to get at this problem of joining those two
tables together.
And it doesn't have to be structured in that way.
But this is just one application that
can be solved by not having strict, normalized relational
databases.
NoSQL databases are really easy to scale because of how simple
the structure is.
You can imagine if all you need to worry about
is scaling by the set of facts that you need to store,
you can write to a database table
like that that's very simple without a structure,
like a very strict relational structure in place,
very quickly.
So you can store data and you can retrieve data
with just the style or structure you have in mind.

But it's important to mention that not all problems are
actually suited well to NoSQL technologies.
Specifically, the problems we've been talking about to date.
Things that have very specific structured relationships
like customers, and orders, and sales, for example,
these are very relational data.
So when you have such a tight relationship,
it may not be natural to try and solve a problem
unless you have massive scale of data
that would require a different solution
or a different approach.
It's important before we go further
to say that there are lots of different types of NoSQL
databases.
So right now, there are many vendors
that are making systems that are not relational database
systems.
And while the SQL database side of things
is actually very standardized and homogenized
and the implementations may be different under the hood,
NoSQL is a whole different world.
So there are just many types of problems to solve
in unconventional ways.
And so there are many different systems in place
to do this type of work.
So we're going to talk about some common types of NoSQL
databases, but there are many others.
And we're just kind of touching the tip of the iceberg here.
So one of the simplest and most standardized lookup systems
that exist in NoSQL databases are key value pair databases.
And so you can think of these as a simple lookup
table or a dictionary.
And what they do is you might have a key that's
linked just to any value.
So, for example, key 1,000 in this table has the value Chris.
And 100,1 has Julie, and 1,002 has Clark.
In an example like this, in this table,
I wouldn't know ahead of time that, for example, a key
would be linked to what appears to be a first name.
There's no structure or names of these columns,
for example, of what the value means.
So all I can say is that there is
a simple table with a list of key values
that seem to be unique and values of those keys
that are related to what appear to be first names.
There's nothing else in this system that tells me explicitly
that this name must be linked to, say, a person,
or that that person must be a customer, or instead
an employee, for example.
So these key value tables, you can imagine,
are extremely simple.
The keys allow us to build a lookup system that's
very fast to search through, very similar to what we were
talking about with indexing.
And the values seem to store a very simple fact.
You can extend this technique, this key value
lookup using things like JSON.
These are formats that allow you to store more than one fact
in a value table.
So for example, if you have this example of a key value store,
you can have each key related to a bunch of different facts
that are related to one thing.
So for example, key 1,000 appears
to have a name of Chris, and a language of English,
and a city of Boston, and a state of Massachusetts.
And 1,001 has a name of Julie, and a state of New York.
And 1,002 has a name of Clark, a language of French,
and a language of Spanish.
One thing you should notice right away
is this does seem a little bit like the Wild West
in terms of what we're storing for each
of these values related to the keys.
So far, just by reading this, it looks
like these relate to people.
But I have some facts about some people
and some facts missing about other people.
For example, I don't know Julie's city is.
I don't know what-- if she speaks any languages.
I can't tell any of that from this structure
because there really isn't that much structure.
All we have is a key that links us up
to kind of like a blob with a whole bunch of different data
types and values.
So this is a more complete view of this person maybe,
for example, say, in some context.
I still have no idea if this is a customer.
I have no link to any orders they've placed, for example.
So you can tell this is just a very different approach
than that strict relational database table set
that we looked at before.
So it's important to remember that each record might
have different data fields or attributes.
And these could be stored together just
with this unique key that we have.
So all we know is that there is going
to be some representation of some person with potentially
what looks like it's very different data for each value.
This is something you have to think about when you're writing
your programs to make sure that you understand something
about the structure.
The data model isn't defined ahead of time.
So you're just looking at this list of key value pairs.
And it doesn't tell us much about the structure,
or the relationships of the data,
or how much data might be redundant, for example.
Like where we need to update data.
For example, if Chris moves, or if Julie moves,
or if Clark learns another language.
We don't know all the places where all of this data
is necessarily stored.
So this is something we have to keep track of externally
from where the data is explicitly stored.
So some NoSQL databases help you do this.
But others are really, really focused on performance
and expect you to know what you're
putting in this data store.
And their focus is simply on finding and updating
some value related to a key.
And so what do we mean by this?
For example, what if we added another row to this table right
here and we put the value MA in it?
Well, this may be completely right
because our program is expecting to find something at key 1,003
with a value of what looks like a state.
But if we didn't know that ahead of time
or we hadn't written our language around that in our program,
it wouldn't understand necessarily
how to handle the value of 1,003 to be a state.
So we-- that's stuff that we really
have to think about ahead of time
when we're using these types of systems.
There are other types of systems of NoSQL databases
that are really document-oriented.
And they're similar to the key value databases
that we've seen before.
Instead, the key value pairs can be further grouped
into collections.
And these are typically related to what we've already
thought about as entities, where we have a customer or an order.
And there's a whole bunch of data
that's related to those customers or orders.
And so, for example, we might imagine
having an employee table, which has key value pairs in it.
But instead, it has all of the details about employee Chris.
And so this collection of data is going
to be related to an employee.
And it will tell us something about those employees
that we need, for example.
So we-- it's just adding a bit more structure and a bit more
notation to what we've already seen.
For example, we could also have an Office's table
in the same database.
And it's keys and values would actually represent offices
that these employees work at.
What's different than what we've seen in the relational database
system so far, though?
So for example, one thing that's different
is that we can see that there's certainly duplicated data.
So in this Employee's table, we see that Chris lives or works
in Boston.
And in the Boston office, we see that there's
an employee Chris and an employee Clark who
we didn't actually record that he works in Boston or lives
in Boston, for example.
So right away, we can see that there's
duplication of data, which we might worry
might get out of date, right?
So it might get stale or have incorrect values over time.
But another thing that we can see
is that there's a bit less structured in general.
So for example, I don't know that this employee ID for Chris
is actually key 1,000.
I'd have to store that differently than maybe
I have in this system design.
Maybe I'm just going to store some rudimentary data
about Chris or Clark, or the fact
that they are employees, just so I
can make a list of all the employees in the Boston office
for this Office table.
It's not a strict ID-based system
that relates these two tables to one another.
So you really start to see that there's very little business
process enforced in this type of NoSQL database.
Even though it is very convenient
to be able to list out all the employees
that work at an office really quickly just
by knowing the key number of the office.
So if that's something that you need
to do routinely for a report or to make a web site faster,
geez, this is totally a great way to do it.
But it comes with all of those caveats
that we've talked about so far.
Another type of NoSQL database is a column-oriented database.
And you can think of this as just
imagine you're indexing every single column
in a relational database with a row.
So for example, if I had an Employees table with each row,
row 1, 2, and 3, which could be like the key,
and it has some structured data about these employees, say,
their first name and the state that they work in.
So there's Christopher who works in Massachusetts.
Julie who works in New York.
And Christopher who works in New York.
And these relate to row 1, 2, and 3 from our Employees table.
The row ID act as the key.
And the attributes act as the value.
And so here is the major difference.
If we want to actually learn where the first name is
Christopher in our Employees table,
we store a first name of Christopher and Julie,
which has all the unique values of the first name
column in this table.
And then we start all the row IDs
where that first name appears.
So if we needed to look up all of the different Christopher's
in our organization or all the Julie's in our organization
very quickly, we can do it with a table like this,
which kind of serves as an index for this Employees table
on the First Name field.
Similarly, we could do a state lookup table,
which would have all the employees that
are in Massachusetts or in New York.
And so in Massachusetts, we know only row ID
one relates to an employee in Massachusetts.
And rows two and three relate to employees in New York.
So now information about each column
is stored very efficiently for some specific types of queries,
such as looking up people or employees by first name
or by state.
And you can imagine this will make
it very, very high performance for when you're searching
for specific types of data that relate
to one other type of table.
There's also a graph database where
we capture all the different connections between data.
And they're not created during a query
like a relational database.
What they're doing is they're making
it really efficient for highly connected systems.
So for example, if we wanted to capture a whole bunch
of connections that happen--
this is very common in some sites
like Facebook or LinkedIn.
And so the situation that this is directly trying to solve
is when you have some complex, interconnected data.
And so this data might be something
as simple as the relationships between a person who
is an author, like John Le Carre who wrote Tinker Tailor Soldier
Spy, which is a book.
And then some people that actually purchased those books
and when they purchased them.
So Ian purchased this book on March 2nd.
And Alan purchased this book on May 7th.
And so we've got a whole bunch of facts
about these people and types about them.
So we know that John Le Carre is a person who is also an author.
We know that this is a book.
We know that Ian and Alan are people.
And we also know that there are other books that these people
have purchased.
So Ian has purchased this book Our Man in Havana,
which we know is a book.
And it was written by Graham Greene,
who's a person and an author.
And so these are pretty complicated,
interactive facts about whole different types.
And we can see how they kind of work together from both sides.
There are authors, but there are also consumers apparently.
And there's some dates that we need
to keep track of when things were purchased.
So you could imagine if your data are highly interconnected,
these graph databases may be better
at solving the types of implementation problems
you need to solve so that you can retrieve
just the right types of data quickly.
And so we've talked about a whole bunch
of different major types of NoSQL databases so far.
And these often fit into very distinctive types
of software stacks.
Software stacks primarily help us solve one specific type
of problem really well.
And so you can imagine you have some technologies that are used
that are pretty well connected to one another,
say, for building application, and also for storing the data,
and for making the application more responsive or more
structured in a way that you need it to be.
And so given whatever application.
You have in mind that you need to develop,
you need to think about just the right type of database
for the problem that will store the data the right way for you,
and also how it works together with different programming
languages.
And this is a whole field of different active development
techniques.
So with that, let's go over some key points from this lesson.
The first is that NoSQL may be faster in some use cases.
And those are specifically where you
can design the data model around the application that
needs to be done.
Transactional business data is still commonly stored
in relational databases due to the importance of consistency
and how reads and writes are handled.
Finally, there is no single right answer.
So companies might actually use different types
of databases for the various operational tasks
that they need to accomplish.
Some tasks may be well-suited to consistent relational databases
that have very strict structure and dependencies,
while other tasks might be very well suited
for being done with NoSQL technology.