
In this lesson, we're going to start talking about information
technology systems.
We'll get to supply chain systems,
but I want to start with the backbone of most companies,
which is the ERP, or the Enterprise Resource Planning
system.
But first, let's start with a general question--
why do supply chains even need information technology or IT
systems?
Well, think back to, I think, our very first lesson
of the very first course.
And we talked about the three flows,
where you have information, you have material flow back,
and money or payment.
So you have all of these flows happening.
And so if we focus on this very simple two-node supply chain--
let's just focus on the right-hand side,
that supermarket.
Think about how many transactions take place
in the supermarket each day.
How accurately can a system capture them?
How do we know that the information
is consistent and current?
How can we use that information to make business decisions?
Because that's really why we collect the data.
We have data and information so we can make better decisions.
And how can these objectives be achieved efficiently?
So if we look at this store, we have all the transactional data
that I mentioned before, whether it's
information or records or physical delivery
or records of payment.
We also have other things that it has to keep track of--
the inventory from the supplier, expired and obsolete inventory.
It's sales out.
It's point of sale system and any kind
of facility management, human resources, or payroll.
So there's a lot of activity happening, even
in this simple, simple supply chain
with a single supermarket.
And in one store, in just one week,
millions of these transactions can occur.
So it isn't just one node at the supermarket,
because we know that each facility is actually
part of a larger set of nodes and arcs within a company.
And even worse, it's part of a larger supply chain network
that includes multiple companies.
So we have all these different interactions
that increase the number of transactions
that we have to worry about.
And then you have to think about the process.
So think about the business processes that we talked about
in previous courses, where you have an input,
you do something, and it triggers an output.
So you can think of this in supply chain for a firm.
One firm takes a bunch of inputs,
turns those into outputs that are an input to another firm,
turns those into outputs that are inputs to another firm,
and so on.
This is the supply chain.
So when we look at this from a macro process view or macro
perspective, we can think of each company,
and how it connects to its suppliers and its customers,
and what it does internally.
And what we did before in previous classes--
we broke this up into three main components--
things that deal with the supplier management process
for sourcing, things that deal on the other end with
the customer management processes--
the CRM or Customer Relationship Management--
and then things that happen within the company itself--
the make, move, and store.
And these are the internal supply chain processes.
And what we made the point of--
when you make these decisions, you're
not going to make them in isolation in a silo.
You have all these different functions within a company,
whether it's procurement, finance, manufacturing, R&D,
logistics, marketing and sales.
We could put HR in there, all of these other functions.
And almost every one of these decisions--
whether it's dealing with the supplier,
dealing with a customer, or dealing with internal actions
to make, move, or store--
it involves, to some degree, all of these different functions.
So the whole idea is we need to interact with each other.
Data needs to flow easily, cleanly
between these different functions.
So why do we need IT systems?
Well, supply chains are big.
They're complex.
They involve multiple players.
They're very intertwined, where one individual action impacts
others, whether that's within a firm
or across a whole supply chain.
We need to make better decisions with common data.
This is what's known as one version of the truth.
It's better if only one set of data
is out there, because everyone is making decisions
off the same set of data.
And we need to interact with other functions in the firm.
And this requires seamless, instantaneous communication
for B to B, B to C, and what's known
as M to M-- this is business to business, business to customer,
and then machine to machine.
And we'll talk more about these.
But these are just forms of communication.
So information technology systems
really are the things that help us do this.
So we're going to talk about three classes of IT systems
in this lesson and in the rest of this week.
The first is ERP, and that's what
we're going to focus on in this lesson.
And this is the general ledger, the central database
or repository for all firm activity.
In the next lesson, we're going to talk about supply chain
planning.
And these are things such as production planning
and scheduling, demand planning, product lifecycle management,
things that we've actually talked about in small toy
problems in previous courses.
We'll talk briefly how that fits into the bigger picture
and how that sits on top of, in most cases, the ERP.
And then we'll spend a fair amount of time
in the next lesson talking about supply chain execution tools.
These are transportation management systems or TMS,
warehouse management systems or WMS, as well as
manufacturing execution systems, or an MES.
So that's what we're going to talk
about for the rest of this week.
What I'm going to talk about for the rest of this lesson,
though, are these five simple questions.
I'm going to try to answer them.
First, why do firms use ERPs specifically?
What are the core functions of an ERP?
What data is needed?
How do these systems communicate?
And what are some of the strategic benefits of an ERP?
So let's get started.