INMA BORRELLA: As we mentioned in the previous segment,
supply chain visibility is different from traceability
or transparency.
Supply chain visibility focuses on the three supply chain
flows--
materials, information, and finance--
and integrates supply chain actors in a superior supply
chain coordination.
On the other hand, traceability focuses just on the product.
Traceability views a product as a granular entity
and traces back its components to their origin,
involving information on where and how they were produced,
by whom, and what was their impact,
social and environmental, along the way.
This information is relevant for companies, government entities
because of regulations, NGOs because
of the social and environmental impact, for consumers
because they care about provenance, quality,
and authenticity of the products they buy.
This information about traceability
is usually disclosed on a label attached to the product itself,
such as the one that you can see in the slide.
Transparency, on the other hand, refers
to the information about the supply
chain flows that is actually available
and disclosed for anyone to check.
A company may have a lot of visibility over its supply
chain.
But it will not be transparent until that information
is published and accessible to relevant stakeholders--
for example, through its ESG report.
Another dimension of supply chain visibility is the scope.
It is helpful to distinguish among internal visibility,
one-up, one-down visibility, and end-to-end visibility.
The greater the scope, the more difficult to achieve
full visibility because more actors, processes,
and systems are involved, increasing complexity.
Internal visibility just involves
the company's own operations.
One example of internal visibility
could be visibility over inventory,
allowing to identify sources of shrinkage
and to better serve customers.
In order to achieve this type of visibility,
internal visibility, internal barriers to information flows
must be broken down.
Often, critical data is kept inside organizational silos.
For example, third-party aggregator data
languishes in marketing, customer relationship
management data in sales, production data in operations,
and financial information in the C-suite.
This hinders visibility and reduces opportunities
to optimize operations.
One-up, one-down visibility refers
to the ability of companies to identify
their first-tier suppliers and buyers.
Expanding beyond the traceability of products,
collaboration with direct suppliers and customers
could improve visibility over operations.
For example, companies could improve their planning
if they had access to point-of-sales data
from customers or to inventory levels
at the suppliers' warehouses.
End-to-end visibility encompasses all echelons
in the supply chain, from deep-tier suppliers
to end customers.
An example of this type of visibility
would be provenance, ensuring authenticity, safety,
and control social and environmental impacts
of a product from extraction of raw materials to point of sale.
This is the most difficult type of visibility
to achieve since supply chains are complex networks that
span across different countries and involve
a myriad of organizations with different capabilities, data
standards, and information systems.
