
So now that we've looked at how machine learning works,
and motivated a bit about why we want
to use it in the San Francisco and New York housing
example, what we want to do next is
called through a bunch of different machine
learning algorithm classes.
We want to understand the lay of the land.
So there are four major types or classes of machine learning
algorithms, and they differ a bit
about what the overall application is
and what types of data you have available.
The first are called classification techniques,
and these assign records or rows of your dataset
to predefined, discrete groups.
This is just as we saw with the housing data.
We're assigning or classifying each record or each home
that came in the dataset to either be from San Francisco
or from New York.
The next is clustering, and clustering algorithms split
records up into discrete groups based on their similarity.
These groups don't need to be known ahead of time.
In fact, we'll be looking at the characteristics
of the underlying data to try and figure out
where the group boundaries are or where
the clusters of different records are that form
these discrete groups.
We'll show you an example of this.
The next class of algorithms is regression.
So you've seen these before, where
we're trying to predict a value of a continuous
or a discrete variable based on independent input parameters.
The last is association learning,
and this is a class of algorithms
that looks at how to observe which values appear together
frequently.
The great example of this is if you're buying something online
and you get a recommendation.
So recommendation engines look frequently
for which items are purchased together by different people,
and they try and make predictions and suggestions
for people when they're checking out and they buy one item,
that they might also be interested in other items.
Now, within classification algorithms,
there are two different major types.
There are supervised and there are unsupervised
learning algorithms.
These are just fancy ways of saying
whether the data, the outcome data or the label,
is known ahead of time.
So in supervised learning, the idea
is that there is already a correct answer or label known
in the training data for an outcome that you'd like.
So for example, the label might have been applied by a person
to say that this order was successful.
Or it might already exist.
It might be a profitable number in an order
that we know that this set of orders
has a certain characteristic that we really like
because it's very profitable.
And so label data are used to train an algorithm
using feedback from a human or using
certain parameters of that labeled data or that outcome
that we really like.
So generally, what we're trying to do here
is look at the labels of the outcomes
and figure out what are the underlying characteristics
of the input data or the data associated or the features
associated with each order, and try
to understand how they lead to successful orders.
So for example, if we had applied a label
to each of the orders to say that they were successful
and they were really excellent orders, what
we would try and do is figure out
what are the underlying characteristics of those orders
that lead them to be successful?
Or if we have a continuous value like the profitability
of the order, what we're going to try and do
is figure out what are the characteristics that
lead to higher profit in our orders
or lower profit in our orders?
Then we want to apply or test this trained
model on some new, unseen data to see
if, in those new records, we can predict the label.
Can we predict that it will be a successful order?
Or can we predict what the profit is, just
as we would have done with regression?
With unsupervised learning, we're
finding some previously unknown patterns in our data
without any labels or any guidance from a human.
We don't have the specific outcome variable in mind
that we want.
What we're going to do is look for specific clusters of data,
for example, that have similarities
in each of the orders.
And, for example, then we're going
to dig deeper in those sets of orders
and try and understand what differentiates
the different clusters, and why.
In this case, there is no training
or testing or validation process necessarily,
because the correct answer isn't known.
So if we look at a normal workflow
for supervised learning, what we do is we take some raw data,
and we take some labels that are applied to it.
These labels, as I said--
they might already exist.
They might be underlying data set characteristics
that we really care about, or they
might be labeled successes and failures, for example.
And we take those two things together-- the raw underlying,
independent input variables or characteristics of each
of our records, and those labels together--
to train an algorithm or train a model.
And then once we've done that, we build a final model
that we're happy with.
From that model, we can evaluate, given some new data,
how well that model does in practice,
and we can go back and tweak the model if needed.
Then once we have a model we're happy with,
we can take unlabeled data, put it through the model,
and then finally, make predictions
about each of the new records that
were previously unlabelled, and decide
whether they're very likely to be successful
or very likely to be failures, or if they'll
have a high profit or not.
With unsupervised learning, the approach
is a little bit different.
What we do is we take our raw data without any output
label or any specific parameter that we're
interested in optimizing, and we look
at how all of the different records
we have, all the different orders,
for example, how they cluster together
or how they are grouped together.
We try and define some boundaries
using an algorithm, which then develops what we call a model.
And this model will be, say, a set of defined boundaries
around specific types of orders or successes or failures.
And we do that by actually looking
in each of those clusters for specific examples of rows
or orders in our dataset, and we try and understand
something about them and label that whole group.
And then we can use those existing groupings
that we've developed in the model and labeled,
and then use them ongoing in production
to help us make predictions for future orders or future rows.
Some unsupervised examples, where it really
excels over supervised learning, is fraud and anomaly detection.
So, for example, you just don't have
that many positive examples that are labeled a fraud.
So what we try and do is we look at the entire dataset together,
and we try and understand what are the characteristics of all
of the orders, and try and see how
they are different in some cluster to understand where
there is likely to be fraud.
It's also really good for association learning.
So, for example, if you look at the Google suggestion box, what
you'll see is a whole bunch of different words of autocomplete
that are based on what people are associating
with a specific word.
Or not only associated with computing,
but with lots of other things.
So some key points from this lesson--
supervised learning uses outcome variables
known as labels for each record to identify patterns
in the input variables, or features related to the outcome
variable.
In unsupervised learning, the process is different.
The outcome variable is not known ahead of time,
so we're looking at the relationships among the input
variables to identify some patterns or clusters
of different records.
And then with those clusters, we'll try and understand more
about them.
Machine learning algorithms are primarily
used to make predictions or learn
about new, unlabelled data.
And so with that, we'll end this segment here.
And go ahead and start those quick questions,
and we'll be back in just a bit.