
INMA BORRELLA: So what are the key takeaways from this lesson?
To achieve end-to-end visibility,
companies must work with their upstream and downstream supply
chain partners to extract and share data and analytics.
The resulting insights can be integrated
into supply chain planning to streamline operations and help
comply with regulations and ESG requirements.
Supply chain visibility consists of three processes--
getting access to information, ensuring
the quality of that information, and utilizing the information
to create business value.
To access information, we must be able to capture and transmit
data.
Data is captured from different sources,
often translating movements and object properties
into the physical world into digital pieces of information
through the use of AIDC technology.
Data is also transmitted across departments and organizations,
which implies the interconnectivity of systems
through EDI or APIs and the development of data standards.
Quality of information is ensured through the timeliness,
completeness, and accuracy of the data available, but also
through the generation of actionable insights
with the visualization and analysis of that data.
Finally, the information is used to create supply chain
capabilities, such as agility and resilience, that
will generate operational efficiencies.
Supply chain visibility holds a lot of benefits.
But it is not an easy feat.
Supply chain visibility means different things
for different people, resulting in a lack of alignment.
The type of company and the products it ships
dictates which processes are prioritized for supply chain
visibility.
For example, for a company shipping food products
or pharmaceuticals, documentation and compliance
is a priority.
And therefore, the visibility solution would reflect that.
On the other hand, an electronic appliances retailer
with high inventory levels would prioritize visibility
over inventory and lead times.
Another challenge is to get management buy-in
for visibility initiatives.
Many companies still struggle to quantify the benefits
and define a meaningful ROI for supply chain visibility
initiatives.
Fragmented IT systems across multiple business units
or supply chain partners and multiple data
streams that need to be consolidated make
it difficult to get visibility.
And finally, most companies have to deal with data overload
and data inconsistencies.
It is necessary to comb through data
and decide what data will be helpful
and what data can be ignored.
Data inconsistencies in both format and rules
are a significant challenge to data interpretation
and reporting.
For example, there's often multiple versions
of the truth for any shipment.
In summary, a visible supply chain
can become a competitive differentiator,
driving better decision-making, giving businesses
the flexibility to act swiftly on sourcing, manufacturing,
logistics, and storage to cope with disruption and complexity,
and becoming more resilient and more efficient.
But there are organizational and technical challenges
that must be overcome.
If you have questions, comments, or suggestions,
please use the discussion forums.
Try the quick questions and the practice problems,
and have fun.