INMA BORRELLA: So what is supply chain visibility?
There is quite a lot of confusion around this term.
Supply chain visibility, supply chain transparency,
traceability, track and trace--
all these terms are often used interchangeably.
But they have slightly different meanings.
All of them, in one way or another,
involve obtaining and processing supply chain information.
But there are differences in terms
of scope, data, and access.
There are many different definitions of supply chain
visibility out there.
But I have selected two for you that
bring the key elements of the concept.
First, we could define supply chain visibility
as a process that captures and transfers accurate, timely,
and complete information among business partners in a supply
chain.
Let me highlight here the idea of a process that captures
and transfers information.
That information must be accurate,
which means error-free, timely, which does not necessarily
mean real-time, but the latency of the data
should be adequate for the insights needed, and complete,
which means no missing pieces or as few missing
pieces as possible.
And finally, the idea that there must
be an exchange of information among supply chain
partners-- and I would add among business functions,
as well, for internal supply chain visibility.
This is another interesting definition
of supply chain visibility, the capability of a supply chain
player to have access to or to provide the required
timely information about the entities involved in the supply
chain from and to relevant supply chain
partners for better decision support.
The two new and important things that this definition brings
are that supply chain visibility is a capability
and that its ultimate purpose is to support decision-making.
We don't want visibility just for the sake of it.
We want it to create business value to support
making better decisions.
In summary, visibility is a supply chain capability
created through capturing and transferring information
that is accurate, timely, and complete among business
functions and supply chain partners
to enable better decision-making.