
So what's in an ERP?
Let's talk about the core functionality.
Remember, an ERP is a system.
And it's a complex software system, and it's tying together
and automates all of the firm-wide or enterprise-wide
business processes.
This is from taking orders, processing requisitions,
monitoring the level of inventory
to all the financial accounting and HR or personnel management.
An ERP records every business transaction,
and it does this in a specific format that
makes it usable and easily connected
to the other functions in the enterprise.
So you can break down the components into these eight
big categories.
Now, every ERP vendor will have a different breakdown.
SAP, Oracle, Microsoft and others
will have slightly different names for these,
but they all have the capabilities in each
of these eight core components.
And what I want to do is go through each of them
in just a little bit of detail to make sure you understand
how it all fits together.
So the first one I want to talk about is customer management.
And this is essentially the face to the customers.
This is the portion of the ERP that that sales person
would use when she was getting the order from the customer
and checking to see if the inventory was on hand or not.
So this component enables order entry, order promising.
It has status for open orders.
It allows marketing to set pricing schemes, promotions,
and discounts.
It allows you to do real time profitability analysis.
And it should permit you to create order configuration,
customize your delivery schedules,
if there are any returns, to manage those,
and to handle any tax management or any currency conversions.
Pretty much anything that deals with the interface
to the customer is in this component, the customer
management.
A lot of times, it's called CRM.
Then there's the manufacturing component,
and this is the face to the production side.
And actually, this is one of the original roles of some
of the earlier ERP systems.
They came out of what was known as an MRP or MRP2 system.
And we'll talk more about that in a later lesson.
So this includes material resource planning, processing,
manufacturing order release, Work In Process
or WIP management, cost reporting, shop [INAUDIBLE]
control-- all those things dealing with the production
side of things.
It provides a real time linkage of demand to supply management.
And this is encapsulated in things like available
to promise.
This is something we talked about in a previous course that
really allows the marketing or sales
side to see when product will be available so that they
can promise this to customers.
And then it's a way of communicating back from sales
to production to reserve certain capacity
or certain products that are being produced
for a certain customer.
So the ATP capability is really powerful,
because it connects the demand and the supply.
And it's similar-- there is something called capability
or capable to promise.
It's very similar to the available to promise function.
And the manufacturing component serves
as the primary interface to any add-on or bolt-on
advanced planning and scheduling optimization modules.
You'll see a lot of these for more advanced production
scheduling.
And we'll talk more about these when
we talk about supply chain planning
modules in a later lesson.

Now let's talk about the procurement component.
And this is the face to the suppliers.
This is the supplier relationship management,
or SRM, component.
And this facilitates purchase order processing,
scheduling of deliveries, open order tracking, receiving,
inspection, supplier performance reporting,
all those kind of common things.
And it creates requests for quotation
and should be able to manage the negotiation and pricing
capabilities.
So this is everything that the firm
needs to interact with their suppliers.
Now, you might have other auction or other more
sophisticated planning modules that deal with procurement
bolting on top of this as well.
So some of the things we talked about in an earlier
course with combinatorial auctions and different things
like that would probably be an additional module on top of it
and would tie in to this procurement piece.
Then you have the logistics side.
This is usually called something like distribution Sometimes
it's called supply chain.
But it's the face to the internal and external supply
chain of the enterprise.
Now, it runs the internal supply chain for the firm itself,
and it provides connectivity to all the different trading
partners-- the third-party logistics providers are 3PLs,
any carriers, any contract warehouses,
any trading partner that deals with the flow of the goods.
This is the component that interacts with them.
It handles the distribution channel configuration,
any activity at the warehouse, replenishment within channels,
distribution order management, all these different activities.
And this component serves as the interface
for any add-on or bolt-ons if you have a WMS or a TMS,
for example.
Remember, there's a warehouse management system
and a transportation management system.
They would tie in to this part, because the TMS has-- usually,
TMSs have added functionality.
And we'll talk more about that in a later lesson.
Then we have the product data component.
And this is the face of really the interface to all
the material that you have.
Now, the material-- what's interesting about that--
it takes different shapes and forms
as it moves through the supply chain.
So it can be raw material, or partially finished goods,
or finished goods.
And then also, it changes--
what you need to know depends on your function.
So if you're in sales, you need to know certain characteristics
that are different from if you're in, say, production.
So having this component that manges all the product data
is massive.
This describes all the products that the company
makes and/or distributes.
It's usually proprietary data on the cost, the source,
the engineering details, the dimensions, the weight,
any packaging.
And you can see how different functions
would use different pieces of this dataset.
It interfaces with the inventory, manufacturing,
product lifecycle management components.
And sometimes, you allow partners to collaborate,
whether they're customers or suppliers, in order
to maybe improve introduction and speed up
the introduction of new products.
So a lot of times, getting this data
is actually very hard to get from a company,
especially if it has costs on it,
because that's a competitive advantage.
However, in certain strategic relationships,
they might share that information
if it improves the time to market, for example,
of a new product launch.

The finance-- this is the face to the Chief Financial
Officer, the CFO.
This is the strong suit of most ERPs.
And sometimes, people view this as a double-edged sword,
because they say an ERP is just one big accounting system.
And I'm being forced, because it's a financial accounting
system, to be 100% accurate all the time when,
for some of these things-- like a physical movement--
it's not as required.
Also, because the finance is such a strong component
of an ERP, it tends to be that the only data that is really
captured, a lot of times, is the financial data.
And you'll see this a lot in supply chain.
For example, when I go out and do
a lot of work trying to understand how transportation
providers, carriers operate within a company's network,
most companies do not store certain data
that is dealing with a physical movement.
They'll capture all the financials.
They'll have all the rates paid, any accesorials, any penalties,
things like that.
But they tend not to keep dwell time--
in other words, how much time a carrier sat.
What was the time that it took to load a vehicle?
Anything that deals with the physical movement that
doesn't have a financial component-- a lot of times,
the ERP won't capture that.
Same thing when you talk about locations
of plants and facilities.
In many cases, the SAP system, for example, and other systems
as well, will capture for a facility
the building address for, say, a supplier.
It won't necessarily have the physical address.
And it might have the building address of the whole company,
not the physical address of the plant that's
providing that material to you.
So this whole finance component of the ERP--
very important.
It really drives a lot of the reason
why ERPs are implemented.
But like I said, it's a double-edged sword.
And so it makes only financial information,
being considered very important, is always captured.
So you also provide real time reporting
of the transactions resulting from any movement
in the inventory or accounts receivable,
accounts payable, et cetera.
And this supports very detailed reporting and budgeting
capabilities.
Again, the finance is a big, big component.

Finally, you have the asset management.
This is where you control your key assets--
heavy equipment, facilities.
And so this controls your fixed assets.
And this is where you establish and maintain your equipment
profiles, any diagnostics, preventive maintenance
activities, and any depreciation tracking, and then
human resources.
Because we assume you have employees, not just robots.
And so you have to have an HR component.
And this is where you manage all aspects of your human capital.
And it monitors performance of any kind of activities
to include time management, payroll, staffing,
compensation, expenses, recruitment,
and hopefully covers employee profiles and skill development,
career planning, retention policy,
and performance evaluations.
So anything dealing with people--
that falls into this component.
So we went quick, and these are eight generic components.
And this isn't to say that every company uses
every single module or every component.
Almost everyone will use the finance,
because everyone has to have a finance side,
and the human resources.
You'll see retailers, for example,
will not need to use the manufacturing components.
And so it depends on the type of customer or firm
that you are what components you're going to use.
But any ERP-- whether it's a leading one, like SAP, Oracle,
or Microsoft, or Sage, or Connexus, any of these ones,
or down to the smaller ones--
they will all handle different aspects of one
of these eight components.
They all do these things.
