
INMA BORRELLA: Let's talk now about the second element
of the framework for supply chain visibility, quality
of information.
It all goes down to the quality of the data.
If the data is not good, then it will not
be possible to get good insights.
Garbage in, garbage out.
There are three essential requirements
to ensure data quality.
First, data must be timely.
This does not necessarily mean real-time data.
Business needs will drive the level of data freshness
required to each application.
Some data streams may need to be updated in real time,
while others may be updated with a daily or weekly frequency.
For example, if you paid for expedited delivery
of a critical component and shipment data is only
updated every 24 hours, this information is not very timely.
On the other hand, you may not need inventory levels
at your warehouse to be updated in real time.
Daily updates may be enough.
Accuracy is another important dimension of data quality.
Our data must reflect reality accurately
to enable good data-driven decision-making.
And finally, completeness is about how
complete the information is, so we don't have many missing data
points, and also about the level of granularity
provided by the data.
Again, we may require different levels of granularity
for different applications.
For example, you do not need the same level of data granularity
to decide whether to open a new warehouse than to forecast
next month's demand for product X in region Y.
Let's pause a moment to reflect a little bit more
about data requirements.
Most companies nowadays are flooded with data.
But this data is often disorganized, kept in silos,
and incomplete.
In order to achieve supply chain visibility,
we need data that is clean, organized, and kept together
in a platform that can be considered
the single source of truth.
We may think that with data, the more the better.
But this is not always true.
More data comes with more costs.
And it may not necessarily support better decision-making.
For most applications, the data must
be cleaned, analyzed, and visualized for it to be useful.
Since supply chain visibility requires data transmission
among supply chain partners, data standardization
is also very relevant.
For example, references to the same shipment
must match across business platforms--
purchase orders, container numbers, etcetera.
And of course, business needs must
be considered when defining data requirements.
Deciding which data is needed to create business value as well
as its level of granularity and freshness
is the first step towards supply chain visibility.
If the data is good enough--
it will never be perfect--
we can start generating insights through data analytics and data
visualization, which usually go hand in hand.
A dashboard that analyzes and summarizes
big amounts of information in digestible bits
and graphical representations is the most common
decision-making support tool for supply chain managers.
Real-time transportation visibility platforms
are a great example of the generation of insights
using multiple data sources.
These platforms provide real-time tracking
of goods from point of origin to point of destination.
They gather information from different sources
through integration with carrier systems,
through APIs, or EDI, direct feeds, GPS,
electronic logging devices, IoT sensors, or other technologies,
such as smartphones.
This data is then processed and presented
in a user-friendly interface, offering
a granular view of the entire transportation process.
These platforms, owned and managed
by third-party software vendors, reveal precise freight
locations but also apply advanced analytics
to predict potential delays and warn about disruptions.
Now that we are discussing about the generation of insights
from data, I would like to introduce
the concept of digital twin.
Digital twins are living digital replicas of physical entities.
They can represent a supply chain or a manufacturing plant,
for example.
A digital twin is not one single technology
but a combination of multiple technologies,
such as sensors, cloud, AI, simulation, visualization.
Many companies are excited about digital twins because
of their ability to sense ongoing conditions
in the physical world, collecting and consolidating
data from a variety of sources.
Digital twins can also learn from this data and the actions
taken and keep evolving to provide better insights
and decision-making support.
For supply chains, digital twins can
produce end-to-end representation of the supply
chain network and support tactical decision-making
because they provide updated visibility over status
of operation and also strategic decision-making because
of their capability to generate different scenarios.
