
OK, what are the key point I want you to take away
from this world wind tour of supply chain management
modules?
Well, the big takeaway is to see how they fit in.
And so what supply chain management modules actually
help you do is extend the enterprise.
And just as an ERP helped you bridge
the gap between manufacturing and finance and marketing,
now the supply chain tools are enabling
you to extend the enterprise upstream and downstream
to your trading partners.
Now, we broke up the system into two-- planning and execution.
In planning, I didn't spend too much time,
even though there's a lot of these modules
out there, because you've already seen what they do.
These advanced planning systems usually
are systems that use mixed integer linear programming
optimization to make long range decisions.
So you'll see this in network design, production planning,
production scheduling, and all of those longer range
decisions.
They're using the same underlying methodology
that we taught you in SC0x, SC1x, and SC2x.
The only difference is they handle bigger problems,
a little more complexity, a little larger and a little
faster solution time.
Now, so that's the planning.
We spent more time on the execution systems
because these are things we haven't talked as much.
We've talked about the decisions being made,
but we really haven't talked about how they're executed.
So we focused on three execution systems.
We spent a lot of time on TMS's--
transportation management systems--
a fair amount of time on warehouse management systems,
and then just a little bit of time on manufacturing execution
systems.
Now, the TMS and WMS are what's known as external
facing execution systems.
They interact with entities that are not part of the firm.
So TMS's will work with transportation providers,
and they also have to coordinate with suppliers
for receiving product, and with customers
for delivering product.
You can think of the transportation
as that bridging function for a company.
It handles the inbound and the outbound--
so the TMS has to really juggle all these external players.
WMS, same thing-- it's receiving product from one entity
and shipping it out to another--
so it tends to be external facing.
Now the WMS itself, is all about operations within the four
walls of the warehouse.
And as I mentioned, it's very different
and not the same thing as an inventory management system
that is establishing the replenishment policies,
the safety stock, and the trigger stock policies.
OK, then we go into manufacturing execution
systems.
And these are less common, but it's really
kind of like the real time execution side of an MRP,
or production planning.
And it helps manage that whip within the facility.
It's more of an internal facing system in that it really
helps the company run its operations better.
It doesn't have too much external facing capability.
We also talked about the distinction
between planning and execution.
It's worth reiterating, because a lot of times people
want to use the same piece of software to do planning
and to use execution, and it really
doesn't make sense, because your strategic planning
decisions are very different from your operational execution
tasks.
Strategic planning is all about finding a value focus.
It's event-based, you're willing to spend a lot of time
because the risk is great, you don't
want to make a bad decision.
On the operational execution side, it's just the opposite,
it's all about process.
You want to automate actions to go faster,
so you make it rules-based.
You're executing the plan, you're
not establishing the plan.
So strategic planning and operational execution,
two very different approaches are used,
and they use different technologies.
You'll see more analysis engines where
there's optimization, simulation, or data
analysis on the strategic side.
And on the operational side, it's all about workflow.
Can I make things faster?
Transaction processing, rules engines,
compliance tracking-- we saw that in the TMS
with different processes that are used.
You see that in the WMS in trying
to streamline the process and make it more paperless.
So very different between planning and execution systems.
So let me finish off with just a quick snapshot of as
of 2015-2016, The Top 20 Supply Team Management Software
Suppliers.
And this comes from Logistics Management,
which is a great journal.
I encourage you guys to look it up.
And so what we have here is The Top 20
By Revenue of the Supply Chain Planning Vendors.
Now, what they did is they listed them as whether they
provide supply chain planning--
SCP-- WMS's.
Then they have the MES/MRP--
they're kind of tied together--
then the transportation management system, or TMS.
And they also include a procurement.
A procurement is becoming more and more part of a supply chain
module.
I didn't talk about it too much because we've
talked about it in a previous class,
but you're seeing this come in even more.
So those are the columns.
On the rows, notice that the top two
suppliers are ERP providers--
SAP and Oracle.
So those are the two biggest ones.
And you notice that they are the few companies that
have all the functionality.
This is what I was saying earlier,
ERP's are just absorbing all this functionality.
And they've both go on acquisition binges
to get this to move out of being a pure transactional system,
to provide some of that longer range planning.
The next ones I want you to notice
are JDA, Manhattan, and Infor, because those ones are actually
growing a little more and they're becoming platforms.
And so these are those supply chain ecosystems.
And so you're seeing more and more of this
as well, where they have multiple offerings.
And then what a company will do is go into that ecosystem,
and if they buy the TMS, they will also
buy the WMS, and so forth.
So you're seeing two or three different categories
here-- that ERP's, the supply chain management platforms,
and then a lot of individual suppliers-- companies
that only focus on one certain aspect.
OK, so this is what I wanted to cover in supply chain
management software systems.
You could spend a lot of time here.
There's a lot of vendors.
I encourage you to go out and look at different vendors.
They all call things a little bit differently,
but hopefully you understand the core functionality.
So hopefully you enjoy the videos,
work the quick questions, practice problems.
And please use the discussion forum.