
The next major thing we want to cover is data cleaning.
And as we said in the beginning of the course, garbage in,
garbage out.
So if you take dirty data and you try and process it and try
and make some inferences from it,
you're apt to get wrong answers that you may realize are wrong,
or you might not even realize are wrong.
So data cleaning is really important,
even though it's a little bit monotonous and not
the most fun job in the world.
Some example problems that you might see.
One of the biggest ones is date format.
So any time you see dates and date time formats, very often
there will be some mismatch here.
There are lots of different ways to record dates
and to order dates.
A month, day, year, or year, date, month, et cetera.
It's essential that these date formats
are consistent throughout your entire dataset.
And that they're clean, and that they work the same way.
So specifically if you wanted to record a time stamp,
there are lots of different ways to record time stamps.
And those are implemented differently
in different software packages, and even different database
vendors implement these differently.
The next of course, is that text has to be in the correct case.
So either cases have to match or not match,
or be all uppercase or all lower.
Of course, this will depend on your application
and the specific circumstances of your data.
So you need to understand the data,
and you need to be able to make sure that things
are corrected or consistent.
Of course, very often you need to split first and last names
to do things like mail merge or to welcome users
into your system, these can be tricky.
Of course, these are not always the easiest thing to do,
because first names can be split differently
than last names in different languages and cultures,
and they may be ordered differently.
There's also column mismatch and offset.
So for example, if you have a dataset that's
delimited by a specific character,
say a comma, or a double quote, or a slash, a semi-colon,
or a tab, you can imagine that sometimes, in some systems,
these data might be recorded in one of the fields.
So one of the things that can happen
is say, for example, if you have a last name comma
first name in a single field that represents the user's
name, that might be read by the system as two different columns
because it's separated by that comma.
And so you have to be really careful when you're
importing your data to make sure that you check
and you spot check quite extensively
to make sure that you don't have things that are off by one,
or have an extra column for example, in some of the rows.
And this can be tricky, but there are some tools
that help you do this.
You might need to remove records with missing values
if you need to do an analysis that
relies on having those values.
Or you might even need to impute missing values based
on some logic, or impute them from existing data.
Say for example, to try and make that first name and then
the last name from a full name field if that's available.
Another thing you might need to do
is prepare two datasets to try and merge them
together with imperfect keys.
So you may have to figure out what
the perfect set of key combinations
might be to match up data and make sure that the data is
consistent, make sure there are no extra characters
or things like that, so that the datasets can be fully merged,
and that you won't miss any rows systematically,
in either dataset that you want to join together.

Filtering large data sets is a common problem.
So suppose you receive a really large dataset
from a third party, which contains all the order
data for their 2,000 stores, and it's
over a whole number of years.
And so you can imagine this is tons and tons of records.
But you only care about stores that are in the northeast.
And you only need orders that have a total of over $20
to do the analysis that you want to do.
And you only need the orders that are processed after 2015.
So how can you get just the right orders that you want?
You can imagine this might involve
cleaning up a whole giant dataset
when you only need certain rows.
And it might involve putting a really big dataset
into a database that might not be specced for the job
that you actually need to accomplish.
You might actually have to get more memory
in the database and more storage capacity,
and deal with lots of different hassles and headaches,
because the dataset that you get is much, much larger
than the data set that you ultimately need to process.
So we'll talk about some tools that
can help assist you in this process of whittling down
a very large dataset, down to just the records that you need.
The good news is there are lots of different types of data
cleaning solutions.
This class of problem is generally
called extract, transform, and load, or ETL for short.
And it deals with not only extracting and getting
the relevant data, but maybe transforming
some of the fields to other fields,
and also loading it up into a database
or whatever system that you need to use.
There are off the shelf software systems
made by third parties that allow for data preparation.
And some of them are much more advanced tools
that do lots of other statistical analysis
and things like that, but they're also
very strong in data preparation.
These are made by lots of vendors, Trifacta, Paxata,
Alteryx, SAS, Stata, et cetera.
These are lots of major companies
that deal with this exact problem.
There are open source programming languages.
Python has lots of support and so does R
for loading up datasets, for parsing datasets.
These libraries can do things like read a comma separated
value file or a tab separated value file
and put it into memory in a set of columns and rows
that you can access really quickly.
They can build dictionaries for you from your data.
They can build key value pair stores for your datasets
in large, large lists that you can
use to run through your data and to, for example, pick out
just the right rows you need, or to do some processing
on a set of columns.
There are even Unix command line tools
that can help you do a lot of these same tasks,
and they can operate without even loading data
into a program, or having a program try and read
a dataset file.
So these can be done in the file system in batches
during processing.
These include things like regular expressions or regex,
which refers to a set of things that
allow you to sort and search by specific characteristics
of strings in your dataset.
There's grep, which we'll talk about.
Sed and awk, which are tools that can let you
do very large sets of record processing very quickly.
These range from being the most user
friendly for the off the shelf solutions, to the least
user friendly for things that you really
need to learn a whole bunch about
and understand where the files are and the data are.
But in a lot of problems in life, it's the same thing.
The least user friendly things are sometimes the most flexible
and let you do anything you need to do,
and they're pretty cheap.
These won't cost you any money.
These will be the most expensive.
You'll have to get some sort of licensing usually.
And there may be a little bit less flexibility with what they
can specifically do for you.
Off the shelf tools for data preparation sometimes
give you lots of other features.
Very often, they have graphical user interfaces
so you can really see what's going.
On you can drag and drop specific datasets
and manipulate them with arrows or processes
that need to happen along the way.
And that means that you can really
reduce the amount of programming that you
need to do to actually process your data set, which
can be really helpful.
Because it enables more people to actually be
able to do this type of task.
And that means when that task is actually
given to the end users that really need
to do this operation, they'll be very intimately familiar
with the data that needs to be manipulated,
and how it needs to be manipulated.
So that can be really helpful.
So it enables you to collaborate with non-programmers
to do some of the programming tasks
that need to be done at a company.
The next thing is that they're really good at joining
disparate datasets together.
So you can take two different datasets
and before you even load them into SQL,
you can join two things together,
which can be really helpful.
These systems are also built to perform well
on really large datasets.
Very often, off the shelf tools have reproducible steps
and workflow.
This means that you can build a system that
can process data, say a pipeline that
can take a specific type of input dataset
and join it with some other type of dataset
and produce some output that you need.
And that pipeline can be used again and again, even
with new versions of data.
And it can be stable, and it can be fully reproducible
so people can understand exactly what's happening along the way.
Along these same lines, very often these systems
offer version control.
And so version control can allow you
to take a version of a pipeline, or a version of a pipeline
joined with a version of a dataset that
allows you to know specifically what the capabilities are
for any given version of the software.
And then the next version up will maybe offer something new,
or be able to process a certain new type of piece of data.
This software though isn't free.
So this means you have to pay for licensing costs.
You have to learn how to use it, and you
have to live within whatever limitations it might have.
On the other hand, the open source programming languages,
they work in data frames and data dictionaries.
So this means that you're going to have
to learn a little bit about programming to use them.
It requires some skills, but the languages
are relatively Google friendly.
Meaning that you can use a search system
to be able to find a lot of the answers
that you might come into.
So say, for example, you need to learn
how to open up a CSV file, you can Google that usually
and somebody will have worked a problem in Python
or worked an example in R that will show you how to do that.
There is a really broad set of computational and scientific
tools that are available for these platforms.
So there are machine learning tool kits,
and there are statistical toolkits,
and even linear algebra toolkits to be
able to use on these programming languages.
And so that's a really nice feature that's available,
and they don't cost anything.
There are even ways to manage reproducibility
of your software in these open source programming
languages, including version control,
inspecting all the steps of a pipeline, for example.
So one example of this is the Jupyter Notebook,
which works with Python.
And so what this allows you to do
is to visualize all of the steps that
are involved in data processing and within a pipeline,
so that you can track exactly what's
happening at each line that's running the software.
These open source programming languages are free.
But of course, they require some expertise.
So you are going to have to spend time
to learn how to use them.
A lot of things won't be available off the shelf
necessarily, so you'll have to find the right library,
and make sure that it works with another library
or another system that you're using,
and that the version works with the right version
of the software and operating system or language
that you're using.
So there are constraints and difficulties
with employing these techniques.
But of course, they're very flexible,
and totally give you a lot of extra features.
The next level down was those Unix command line tools.
And those are the things that are really
at the system level and the operating system level,
rather than being in a software language
or in a third party software application.
And so these were developed a long time ago, in the 1970s,
but they're still relevant today.
People use these quite a bit.
You can even tell from the command names
that these things are definitely not the most user friendly, awk
and grep and sed and password.
So these aren't as user friendly as the previous options,
but they're extremely fast and versatile.
And many of these are also Google
friendly for a common application.
So if you need to search for every record in a very
large dataset that starts with a certain characteristic,
or find the 5th column and the 7th column
and output those only to a file very quickly,
these are your things to use.
They're excellent for breaking up large datasets that
might crash other software.
So sometimes the datasets are so big,
that it just doesn't even make sense
to load the dataset into a tool.
These are also free, and they're available
or some implementation of them is available on just
about every operating system.
So let's look at a few things that you can do with these Unix
command line systems.
So you can do something called regex,
which is regular expressions.
And as I mentioned, these are used to specify a text pattern.
So you can really get very complicated
in matching a specific string pattern.
Say for example, if you want to find
all of the email addresses that are in a very large file,
you can say, oh, I want something
that starts with a string that can contain characters
and numbers of a certain size, that's immediately followed
by an at symbol, with some other text that could be characters
and numbers, but may be limited on what
types of special characters you could have with a period,
and then one of the following suffixes like com, or net,
or gov, or edu.
So you can really describe the strings
that you want to get out of a large corpus of text
and do some processing on those.
The next thing that you can do is grep.
And grep stands for Globally Search Regular Expression
and Print.
So it's built on top of this regex stuff.
So the idea is that you can search
to find text that matches a specified pattern.
And you can do that really dramatically quickly.
So this doesn't actually even process line by line
through the software.
There's a sophisticated set of techniques
that are used to find exactly what you need
and to print it out to the console.
The next thing is sed, which stands for Stream Editor.
And this is used to find and replace
text that matches a specified pattern,
and there are lots of other things you can do with this.
Finally, we'll cover awk, which allows
you to do a lot of the same things you can do in grep,
and it has the same regex regular expression
support as the tools above, but you
can do a lot of other things with delimited data in awk.
And so for example, you can break up the data
very quickly into columns, if it's already
delimited in the files.
So you can specify what type of delimiter is in there,
and say maybe you just get the right set of columns
that you need.
Maybe you only need the first five columns
from a very large file that has many columns in it.
And so you can reduce the total size of the data
dramatically on the column space,
as well as in the row space, which was the focus of grep,
for example.
Some key points from this lesson.
Data almost always needs to be cleaned or pre-processed
before can be inserted into a database.
This might involve reducing the size of your data
dramatically by filtering, or specifying just the rows
that you need.
The next thing is that this data cleaning
can be performed with lots of different types of tools.
There is free software, and the learning curve
may be steeper for those.
And then there's also commercial software,
but those may be a little bit more expensive.
So like just about everything in life,
there are pros and cons of all of these approaches.
So with that, we'll end this segment here.
Please take a look at the quick questions
and think about the general assignments
and the graded assignments for this section.
Thanks so much.