
In this segment, we're going to run through an exercise
where we really motivate machine learning to you by showing you
an example where we try and discriminate between New York
houses and San Francisco houses using
a whole bunch of different underlying features.
And this exercise is all online at r2d3.us.
We'll run through it together, But feel
free to take time and go through it yourself, if you'd like to.
So as we've covered, machine learning
helps computers apply different statistical techniques
to identify patterns within data sets.
And these techniques can really help us
make very accurate predictions.
So what we're going to do is use a data
set about homes that are in either New York
or in San Francisco, and we're going to try and develop
a machine learning model that will help us distinguish
between homes in New York and homes in San Francisco.
We're going to try and figure out
what are the underlying characteristics of homes
in either place that really help us understand whether a home is
very likely to be in New York or very
likely to be in San Francisco.
So the first thing that we're going to do
is just develop some intuition with a single variable.
So let's say you had to determine
whether a home is in San Francisco
or if it's in New York.
In machine learning terms, that categorization
is a classification task.
We want to classify whether a home is in San Francisco
or whether a home is in New York,
and we want to use the underlying variables
that we know about each of the homes in San Francisco and New
York to be able to classify each home.
So if you've ever been to San Francisco,
you know it's a pretty hilly destination.
They run those trolleys up steep hills so that people
don't have to walk up them.
And if you've been to New York, you know it's relatively flat.
It's on bedrock and it's a big island.
So one of the things that you could imagine
that would help us discriminate or classify whether a home is
in San Francisco or whether it's in New York
might be the elevation of the home.
So what we've looked at here is the elevations
of all the homes in a data set in San Francisco in green
and all the elevations of a home in New York in blue.
One thing you can see right away is
that the homes go much higher in San Francisco
than they do in New York.
And, in fact, some homes in San Francisco
are altogether higher than any home in New York.
So the homes that are above 240 feet of elevation
in San Francisco are higher than the elevation
of any home in New York.
And so, you could imagine you could build some rule that
says based on the home elevation data
if you see a home above 240 feet,
it should be classified as San Francisco.
We know this is not perfect, but it would tell us
something right away.
But, of course, it's not a perfect rule.
So we can see right away that there
are plenty of homes below 240 feet elevation
in San Francisco, just as there are homes in New York.
So it wouldn't be able to help us classify homes
in New York or San Francisco perfectly.
So the next thing we might try and do
is see if there are other predictive variables that
actually exist in the data set that can help us improve
these classifications.
So if we add another dimension, a second feature,
or a second characteristic about each of the homes that we have,
maybe we can do a better job.
And so, this would be adding another--
we call these either features, or predictors, or variables.
And so, one of the things that if you've been inside a New
York apartment you might know is that they're very, very small.
And so, that makes them extremely
expensive per square foot.
And so, what we'd like to do is visualize both elevation
and price per square foot in a scatterplot
to see if it can do a better job of helping us distinguish
those lower elevation homes where
we know we have homes in both New York and San Francisco.
So if we look at the elevation on the y-axis
and the price per square foot on the x-axis,
every single point on this scatterplot
contains a single home with each of those two characteristics.
So each home-- say, this home right here--
has an elevation of 744 feet above sea level
and has a price per square foot of about $300 per square foot.
We can see that all the dots in green
are still San Francisco homes and all the dots in blue
are in New York.
And one thing I'd like to point out right away
is that you can see that there is this nice L-shaped pattern
where you see mostly blue dots along one axis and mostly green
dots along the other.
This should be screaming out to us
that these two characteristics-- or these two features--
are really helping us pull apart all
of the homes in New York on the bottom here
and all the homes in San Francisco up here.
Of course, there's still some overlap right here,
and that's the part that we're going to have
to work harder to discriminate.
But based on this data, if we look
at homes at or below 240 feet--
so the homes that are in this range--
we can see that there are a lot more of homes in New York that
are over $1,776 per square foot than there are any San
Francisco homes in here.
So that's sort of that break point
right there where there's that last green dot.
Any home above this seems to be in New York.
Of course, we know this is not going
to be a perfect rule going forward,
but it's something, right?
So we might try and draw boundaries using this data.
And we might say that every home that
is in this price range in here that
is below 240 feet of elevation seems
to be exclusively in New York.
And we might say that every home above 240 feet of elevation
is actually a home in San Francisco.
Again, we know these are not going
to be perfect boundaries going forward.
So we only have a sample of our data, right?
We only have some subset of homes from New York
and some subset of homes from San Francisco.
Maybe there'll be a future home in New York that is--
it has a higher elevation than 240 feet
and we just haven't seen it yet because we
haven't sampled enough.
So this is completely reasonable,
but given the data that we have here,
these are somewhat reasonable boundaries.
And then we have to work harder in this region.
This is the region below 240 feet of elevation
and below $1,776 where we seem to be pretty
good at discriminating but not perfect,
because there's a lot of green and blue dots together here.
So what we've managed to do here is draw some boundaries
using historical data to try and make predictions
about future data points.
So, for example, if we have a home that has these
characteristics here-- a low price per square foot
and a high elevation--
we're going to assume it's probably
likely to be San Francisco home.
And if we have a home in this region
and the dot comes in here, we're going
to probably guess that it would be a New York home.
And so, the next thing we want to do
is see if we can improve our predictions in this zone.
And you can imagine-- what do we need to do?
We probably need to get some additional characteristics
about each home in this region to be able to improve
these predictions.
And luckily enough, this data set actually
has seven different dimensions.
And so, each dimension of this data set
contains a specific feature like the elevation
and the price per square foot, which we saw before.
And what we can do is make this scatterplot matrix,
which looks at each of the different features-- elevation,
the year the home was built, the number of bathrooms,
the number of bedrooms, the price of the home,
the square footage of the home, and the price per square foot--
and we can improve our predictions in that space
where we don't have enough data from the first two dimensions
or the first two features.
So, hopefully, we're going to be able to pull data
from these other features and be able to understand how
to discriminate homes in that region better.
So this scatterplot matrix basically
looks at scatter plots between each two variables.
So if you look at the price per square foot and the elevation
here, then this place where these two features intersect
is where the scatterplot we saw before is.
So this is the one that we looked at originally.
You can see it has that really nice L pattern.
One other thing to point out right away
is you might have thought about this as I was
talking about these features.
Well, certainly some of these are correlated.
So the price, and the square footage,
and the price per square foot are certainly correlated.
They're just literally an equation in correlation.
So what we have to do is understand
how the correlation between these variables
matters as well.
And so, this is where machine learning
comes into the picture.
So machine learning is going to help
us identify those correlations and those patterns
among all of these different variables
and help us predict better for each of the points that
comes in whether it will be a home in San Francisco
or whether it's likely to be a home in New York.
And the first type of example that we'll go through
is a decision tree.
And so, a decision tree is very similar to what
we did with those boundaries.
What we're going to try and do is
say every incoming point has decision points that
lead to either a prediction for a San Francisco home
or a classification of a New York home.
And so, what we'll do first is try and find
some better boundaries.
So if we revisit the original example
and we put it into a histogram, what we can see
is something you might have noticed in the figure.
Well, there was really only one home or two homes here
that had an elevation of 240 feet in New York
and there are many, many homes from San Francisco
in this region between, say, I guess 150 feet of elevation
and 240 feet of elevation.
So by putting this data into a histogram,
what we're able to do is probably
draw a better boundary, where we will
get some incorrect predictions in the future
but we'll probably do a whole lot better
with our overall performance.
And so, what is a good fork point that you can think of?
So we could draw a fork based on the elevation, which is sort
of like an if then statement.
And you can think of it that if a home is
above whatever this square footage is,
it's much more likely to be from San Francisco
than it is from New York.
And if a home is below that point-- that fork point--
otherwise it will likely be from New York,
with some proportion of homes--
all the homes in New York are in this range,
except for these two, and then some homes from San Francisco
are in that range.
And so, this fork point if we drew it, say, at 242 feet,
this split point is important.
Because what it allows us to do is
say that homes to the right of the split point
are very likely to be from San Francisco-- in fact,
perfectly from San Francisco in this case.
47 out of 47 homes to the right of this split point
are from San Francisco.
Then this split point, all the homes to the left of them
are either from New York or San Francisco still.
You can see that the overall fraction of homes that are
predicted correctly.
Say, if you said all the homes to the left
should be from New York and all the homes of the right
should be from San Francisco, you wouldn't do very well.
You'd only be 63% accurate, because there
are 111 homes to the left of this split point from New York
but still 92 green homes that are
from San Francisco that just have a lower elevation than 242
feet.
So maybe we can do better.

So what we can do is try and move this split point
to have different trade-offs.
So we can see that if we move this split point
all the way to the bottom to 0 feet elevation, well,
we would predict no homes to be from New York
and that we would predict every home to be from San Francisco
to the right of that split point.
In this case, we'd actually be doing worse
than we were doing before.
We'd only be 56% accurate, because--
well, we didn't actually classify any homes
from New York, and all the homes that we classified
from San Francisco to the right of the break point
would include all the homes from New York.
So we're only doing as well as the proportions of these two
split points.
So what if we try and move it to a slightly better place?
Well, the best split is actually somewhere over here.
It's actually at 91.9 feet.
If we predicted every home to the left of this point
would be from New York and every home to the right of it
is from San Francisco, well, we do a pretty good job
on the homes to the right.
99 of the homes to the right of this with an elevation above 92
feet are from San Francisco and only six are from New York.
So these are true positive results and these
are false positive results that this home is from New York.
On the left side, we'd do a pretty good job as well.
So we'd say 105 out of 145 homes on the left side
are from New York.
And so, these 40 are misclassified as homes
that should be from New York that are actually
in San Francisco.
So you can see here, though, that we're altogether
doing better than we were doing before.
We're getting 82% accuracy just by moving the split
point somewhere where it's not completely
perfect to the right of it.
We're actually allowing some false answers
and some false predictions, and we're
trading those off for more correct answers altogether.
And so, in this case, this is the best possible split
with just two variables, but we can
do better as we go along with multiple variables.
So we're going to end this segment here.
And when we come back, we'll think
about how to generalize this model to multiple variables
and also how to make sure that we're actually
making accurate predictions.
So go ahead and look at the quick questions
and we'll be back in the next segment.