
OK, so we've talked about what an enterprise resource planning
system, or ERP, is, what the different components are,
why a firm would adopt it, the data
requirements, the communication standards,
and really discussed how it's used on a transactional basis.
However, there's a lot more to an ERP.
It can serve as the basis or the platform
from which a company can really improve their strategic value.
So let me talk in this short video segment about three
opportunities where ERP's can really assist
in this added strategic value.
The first one is reducing the Bullwhip Effect.
Now we've talked about the Bullwhip Effect
in many different of the classes.
And as we all know, it's the effect
where the demand is magnified and has greater amplitude
and oscillation as I move upstream.
So as I move from a customer where the demand is relatively
stable, moving upstream to the retailers,
I get more oscillation and higher amplitude.
And it gets even worse as I move up to distribution centers,
to manufacturing, and so on.
And while the average demand stays the same, the oscillation
around that, the variability increases dramatically
as I move upstream.
And we've talked about why this happens.
They are behavioral causes.
It's mainly due to people, right?
We tend to overreact to backlogs, we do panic ordering,
order twice as much as we need because we know we'll only
get half of what we order.
So all of these behavioral things,
miscommunication, lack of transparency.
And then there are some operational causes.
Whenever you have demand forecasting errors,
that could amplify the Bullwhip Effect.
Having variable lead time does the same thing.
Having a forced lot sizing order batching,
which makes sense for economies of scale, right?
If I have a minimum order quantity
or a full truckload requirement, there's
a reason why it's there.
But the downside is that it induces the Bullwhip Effect
to some degree.
And I could also have gaming, when there's
a shortage in promotions.
All of these things can lead to the Bullwhip Effect.
So what does an ERP do?
Well, it really can mitigate some of these things.
So because it has that extended visibility
and it has a common database, one version of the truth,
then it really minimizes some of those behavioral causes.
You have this quote "trustful collaboration"
that it engenders your point of sale data that's visible now.
And so that takes care of some of that lack of transparency.
And there's greater information sharing.
So this can actually mitigate some of the Bullwhip Effect,
having an ERP system.
In fact, some studies have shown that over the last 10 to 15
years since this effect was really brought out,
as ERP's become wider spread, the Bullwhip Effect
actually is getting mitigated.
And it's mainly because of that one version
of the truth shared database.
So this is one example.
So another is that an ERP can enable advanced analytics.
So think about ERP systems.
They're primarily financial, so they're really backwards
looking.
They're retrospective, they're telling me what has happened.
So the general ledger of the firm, it's all historical data.
And it's really there to provide the CFO
with a financial snapshot at particular times.
However, we can use that data for other purposes.
And this is where business intelligence comes in.
And it's really blossomed over the last 5 to 10 years.
And it's where you transform this raw data into information
that you can use to improve your decision making.
Now there are many different analytical packages
out there and models.
And they really fall into these three categories
that should be very familiar to you if you've taken SC0X.
That is, you have descriptive models
that can come up and explain what has happened.
And ERP's have always been good about this,
because they're backwards looking.
They're good at reporting, getting scorecards,
benchmarking, things like that.
What's new is they're being used for better predictive models.
What could happen.
So as I mine what has happened, I
can start projecting that forward.
And there's been a lot of work in machine
learning to try to work on that and improve that.
And that's why we introduced machine
learning into this course.
And then, finally, a prescriptive.
What should we do.
And this is all the optimization and algorithms and simulation
models that we've talked about in previous courses.
It helps us determine the what ifs.
And when we talk later about supply chain planning systems,
they really build off this ERP and help us do that what should
we do.
It answers that question, a lot of what if analysis.
So the ERP essentially enables this advanced business
analytics within a firm.
OK, the third one I want to talk about
is extending the enterprise.
So far we've talked about ERP's as being used within the firm.
That's what they were designed for.
They were designed to bridge the gap between finance
and operations essentially, really tying those things
together within the firm.
Because it's hard to imagine 30 years ago how
separate and siloed organizations were.
We take it for granted now that there's such visibility,
but it wasn't always there.
So that's the reason why ERP's were developed.
But we can also use this as a platform
to extend beyond our four walls of our own firm.
Because companies are increasingly
relying on their trading partners
to improve their whole supply chain.
So how does this work?
Well, you can think of the ERP as connecting one to the other.
And you create this larger business network.
Because just as you can provide one version of the truth
within a company, you can start providing
one version of the truth along your supply chain.
And a lot of retailers do this by releasing
their point of sale data to their trading partners.
So this reduces the needed coordination monitoring costs.
As that cost goes down, you can do more of it,
and you're able to respond much more quickly.
Any signals that are received by the ends of that network, so
think about the Bullwhip Effect.
When you have something happening at the retail level,
you don't wait for it to ripple through,
you understand it right away.
So the ERP can really be used to extend this network.
And the way it does that is by introducing different modules.
And we'll talk more about these in the next couple of lessons.
So if I've got my ERP here, what happens
is over the course of years different modules,
specialized modules, have come up.
Let me talk about each of them very quickly.
At the top, we have the product lifecycle management.
This is all about managing the launch and lifecycle
of a new product.
CRM is customer relationship management.
SRM is supplier relationship management,
how you work with your customers and your suppliers.
And then there's a whole supply chain management
suite of modules.
Now some of these, like CRM and SRM,
I've talked about before that they're part of the ERP.
And they can be, but sometimes they're stand alone.
But the idea of using the ERP to extend the enterprise,
you just have to think about how one company's CRM is
going to interface with the next company's SRM and vice versa.
So the whole idea here is these ERP's are now
moving beyond the four walls of a firm
to think about extending that enterprise
along the whole supply chain.
And so the visibility of data, and the one version
of the truth, gets even longer and longer
along that supply chain.
All right, so this concludes what
I wanted to talk about for ERP's or enterprise resource planning
systems.
Please watch the videos, watch the interview videos,
use the quick questions, the practice problems.
And have fun.