
In this segment, we're going to talk
about a rapidly growing area of computing
called cloud services.
Cloud computing has developed dramatically
over the last decade and can refer
to a number of different things.
Some of the older technologies that are still very much in use
are infrastructure as a service.
So infrastructure as a service, or IaaS,
is when you outsource your hardware to a vendor.
This provides users with the ability
to scope every single component of their system,
including the operating system, the database, the application
stack, as we've discussed, and lots
of other components such as networking and security.
This is really flexible, but it has a little bit more work
for you to do when you're implementing on it.
So this platform means that you have to actually understand
how you want your operating system, database,
and stack to be configured.
You have to take care of the security
and all of these types of things,
aside from some rudimentary things
that might be offered as features on those platforms.
And because of this, there's a higher upfront total IT cost,
and that total IT cost can be broken down
into the cost of administration of the servers and any tools
that you need to purchase, as well as
any licensing fees, and also the infrastructure that you
have to kind of rent upfront.
And so there are companies that actually
provide these services.
They have a lot of off the shelf things as well.
But this is sort of the most open ended, flexible system,
and really kind of is just you renting a server
on another system.
The next one up is platform as a service.
And so platform as a service is really
when you outsource just the operating environment.
So for example, if you get a cloud platform that
provides the operating system for you,
or database functionality for you,
or other services, which we'll talk about in just a bit,
there's a bit less work for you to do.
So there are stacks that are available as images for you
to start from so you don't have to actually worry
about necessarily keeping the most up
to date patched version of your software.
There's some support for this.
And so these cloud platform services--
for example, AWS or Microsoft Dash or Google Cloud--
these really allow you to kind of rent
an already existing operating system and some database
capacity on a working operating system, a database system that
already exists.
So we'll talk a little bit about how that works.
But this is kind of the next level
up, where it's a little bit higher level for what you get.
And then there are a lot of different features
that you can build from as well.
And then the last is software as a service.
And this is kind of the highest level of service
that's available, where you're really just outsourcing
the software.
And so this is really configuration of a third party
app, where an application already exists
and your company has some sort of customized version
of the software, or data that's fed into the software, that
allows you to do things that are relevant for your business
on an existing platform that somebody else completely
maintains.
This can be the least flexible because you really
are beholden to whatever application developer is
making the software.
But it has a lower upfront total IT cost,
so you don't need people who understand
how to administer the servers.
You don't need to actually rent servers
that you may not use the full capacity of and things
like that.
There are some real benefits of using the cloud.
Of course, it's become very popular.
But just to explain some of these,
the first is that there's a low startup cost.
So for example, in the old days, you
would have to actually scope out what
the total computational requirement for a project
or for an application or a company might be.
And you had to forecast how many users might be on the system,
and what the concurrency requirements and specifications
might be for the system, and try and make estimates
ahead of time without knowing how well the software will work
and how much memory it might require,
how many application servers you might
need versus database servers.
And you can imagine all of those things
are very hard to forecast, especially
early on in the inception of a project.
And so cloud computing allows you to kind of take a step back
and say, I can build a platform on this cheap version
of a server and see how it works,
and see how it scales with the number of users that I get.
This allows you to prove out your technology
in a prototype that doesn't cost you a whole lot of money
to set up.
And then you can grow it over time
and scale it up as you need to as the user demand grows,
as the demand on your system grows or the service grows.
So this is a really helpful benefit of the cloud.
This lowers your risk during development and testing
of your product and allows you to try new things out
and prototype new services that you might not
take the risk on otherwise if the costs were much higher.
Another benefit of the cloud is that managed hardware
and software take a lot of the headaches and hassles off
of your plate.
So you can imagine you don't need
to hire people that are experts in managing the hardware
and making sure that the security of the building
and the infrastructure is solid, and all those details.
And furthermore, you don't have to worry about-- say,
for example, if you're using a software as a service system,
you don't need to know exactly how to configure
the software perfectly.
Somebody can help you with that who
can help modify an application that already exists for you.
And it takes a lot of the burden for hiring people
with that type of expertise.
Another benefit of the cloud is global reach.
So many cloud platforms have servers
co-located throughout the globe.
And what this means is that your service will be very rapid
and work really well in lots of regions.
And you can even specify, many times,
which regions you're concerned about so
that your software and your data will
be in those regions ready to use, and so that the latency,
or the amount of time that it takes for a user in one
of those regions to hit a server with the relevant data
is really dramatically reduced.
And so if you ran your own servers
and you had them at your own facility,
it would be very slow, or relatively very slow,
for a user in another continent to reach that server
and to get the answer back that they need very quickly.
And so these co-location services
that are provided by many of the platforms
allow you to have that reduced latency and that global reach
where your software and your data need to be.
The next thing is kind of related.
It's that the servers and the services that you
might use on the cloud are highly available and highly
durable.
And I mean a few different things by this.
There will always be a server for you to be able to rent out,
and those servers have excellent uptime because of the platform.
The whole purpose of the platform is to be available
and to rent out capacity, some computing
capacity or some storage capacity,
or some database capacity.
So the whole purpose of these platforms
is to make sure that they're available
and that they can scale quickly as you need them.
So this means that somebody else is
working on making sure that you have excellent reliability
and uptime.
The other thing is highly durable data.
So for example, if you needed to store your own data
for your company you'd have to come up with a mechanism
to make sure that the data is in enough locations that
are geographically separated and available in different networks
to make sure that you can always get access
back to that data when you need it.
And in case two or three hard drives
break that store this data, you should still
be able to get access to that data
from some sort of backup or something.
You can imagine that's a lot of overhead
and work for somebody to do and to manage.
And so because this is done at scale,
just like the servers are done at scale, now
on a giant platform, somebody else can worry about all
of those details for you.
And the cost to actually implement
such high performance and availability
and durability of your data is dramatically reduced.
The next thing we've mentioned already
is that you can scale on demand.
And really, the next part of this
is that you can pay only for what you use.
And so that's going to be a really strong benefit.
Say, for example, you need to only do
an analysis for one of your services,
and it has to be done every night so that the data is
prepared for the next day.
So you can imagine running a server 24/7
to operate on something only at night is not really that worth
it.
So you can save a ton of money by only
using the service, or many servers, when you need to.
In some cases you can even make these cloud services
work together with your local infrastructure if you need to.
Say for example, if your system has some locally generated
data, you can transmit that data to the cloud,
and there are systems in place to help you do
that type of stuff routinely.
The next thing I want to expand on a little bit
is that a lot of these platforms that have,
say, for example, platform as a service,
offer lots of different features to process your data,
to store your data, to analyze your data,
to visualize your data, even.
So we're going to pick just one pipeline.
And I'm sorry to have picked a vendor,
but we're just going pick Amazon Web Services, just as
an example to show you some of the features that are
available with this service.
You We'll show you kind of how these work,
but you can really go to any platform as a service provider,
and they probably have an analog for most of these things.
So for example, one service I'm sure you can imagine using,
if you've learned about it, is Amazon RDS,
which refers to relational database service.
And so those are like the databases
that we've learned about, like MySQL, for example, which
allows you to store relational database tables
and to access information from those tables on demand
when you need them.
And so this service allows you to completely abstract
the implementation of a database server
and leave it to the platform provider.
You can tell this platform provider, I need a database,
and it should have these tables with this data in it.
And then you can just run the commands on it,
and you don't have to worry about making sure
that you have enough database servers
and that they're synchronized.
The platform provider will handle all of that work for you
and will worry about backing up your data and the security
of your data.
And so this is a really nice feature for people
to be able to use so that they can completely abstract away
the storage of their data or their database service,
for example.
And there are lots of different types
of services that are available.
So there's also a data warehousing service that's
available called Redshift.
And Redshift allows you to set up
a cluster where you store lots of different pieces of data
about your business.
And this is supposed to scale up to petabytes.
And the idea is that you can then run data analysis
algorithms on those clusters, depending on how you see fit
and what performance you need.
The next step we'll talk about is the NoSQL version
of the database store.
And so Amazon DynamoDB allows you
to have a NoSQL implementation where you can
store lots of key value pairs.
The last thing that I'll mention is there's even
machine learning platforms.
So we'll be talking about those later, just
generally how machine learning works,
but there actually is a service that
allows you to do and implement specific machine learning
applications and tasks on your data.
And this is available as a service on this platform.
Again, this isn't the only platform that
offers these types of services.
I just wanted to show you one example from one vendor.
But you can imagine that if you needed
to implement some machine learning service,
that it's great that it's available and ready to go
for you to use, and you don't have to do any configuration
other than the rudimentary things
that you would want to do anyway to implement
one of these algorithms.
So the key points from this lesson.
Platform as a service removes the high startup cost
of owning hardware and the IT costs of maintaining
the hardware.
Of course, those costs are built in.
You have to rent the hardware and you
have to rent those database services,
and you have to kind of use those by the hour,
and you have to specify how great those have to be
or not great they have to be, depending on how much
you want to pay for them.
So while there is still work involved
in administering these systems, the large majority
of the startup cost of owning the hardware,
for example, making the physical platforms and facilities
to store these and secure the servers,
to procure all the maintenance and the hardware
and all these licenses and things like that,
and the IT cost of maintaining that hardware
is dramatically reduced, especially up front.
The next thing is that you can rely on the information
technology from large platform as a service companies
to create services that are highly available
and that store data in a highly durable manner.
So you can co-locate your services in the regions
where the data is especially needed,
or you need to reduce latency, you can make sure
that you have excellent uptime characteristics,
and you can make sure that you don't lose access to your data
or lose it all together.
With platform as a service, users
are still responsible for figuring out the best way
to implement these services.
These aren't foolproof.
You still have to figure out what the right things to scope
are, and actually how to implement
those services effectively to do the tasks
that you need to accomplish.