
In this segment, we're going to cover indexes
in database performance.
When database tables get really large,
it can impact their performance.
It can make finding or updating a specific record
really slow or costly and computationally expensive.
One solution to this that's been developed is called indexing.
An index is a completely separate data object
that's stored in the database.
And the whole role of an index is
that it's listing all of the records in order
in the context of a specific attribute.
So for example, if you wanted to list
all of the records in order by the last name of a customer,
there is a way to do that with an index.
And primary keys and foreign keys
are automatically indexed for you
because it's expected that those fields will
be used so frequently.
You can imagine you look up records
in a table very frequently using the primary or foreign keys.
So this is very valuable.
So for example, if we have our customers table
with a customer number, the company name, the customer rep,
and the credit limit, you can imagine
if you have a lot of company names
here in this customers table, retrieving a specific company
by name might get really slow.
So what we can do is build an index
based on the company name.
And what this will be is a list of all the company
names in a specific order that the database will make very
quick to look up and an index, and this index
will point us to the appropriate customer
number in the order of the existing database table.
So, for Amaratunga Enterprises, the index
will point us to the right location in memory
where all of the data is stored for customer number 522.
In Connor Co, well, we'll be pointing right to that record
as well.
And Feni Fabricators will be pointing to that record
as well.
And so the whole point of this is
that we have our original data stored in its original form
with its customer number look-up that have already exists.
But if we want to have a way to look up by company name really
quickly, we can create this separate object in the database
called an index that will help us look up all of the records
by company name more quickly.
These index columns are really rapidly searched,
so the database will have to figure out
how to store this in such a way that it can
be retrieved extremely quickly.

Now, there are some consequences to indexes.
Each index may be updated when a row is updated.
So you can imagine if you update some piece of data
in the database, the index may accordingly have to be updated.
This slows updates, insertions, and deletion events
so when those happen, any time you
have to update data that's related to an indexed field,
you can imagine this will slow those updates, insertions,
or deletions.
If a database is mostly used for reading values,
that is, you're just looking for specific customer orders
where you're looking for specific customer details
and you're not updating that database table very often,
then you can use indexes on your most selected attributes
to improve performance.
However, if a database table is mostly updated,
you want to use as few indexes as possible.
There's generally a practical maximum of three
or four indexes per table.
Now let's think about a more detailed example with indexes.
So let's say we have that customers table.
And a customers table has a customer ID as a primary key.
We might also want to search by a customers name,
maybe by their last name, maybe by their first name,
maybe by both.
So we might think about using something
like that to make an index.
We might also want to look them up by their city and state.
We might want to look them up by a zip code, or postal code,
or their address.
So to make it faster to look up using these specific types
of attributes, we can generate multiple indexes
for these things.
We can generate an index for the name,
we can generate an index for the city or the state,
for the zip or postal code, or for the address.
And each of these indexes will help
us look up specific customer records more quickly by each
of these specific attributes.
So in this case, if we make indexes,
we'll be generating four new indexes.
What's the consequence, again?
It will be slower for inserts, updates, deletes,
but it will make it much faster for looking up
values in the customers table or records
in the customers table using any of these attributes.
So if the customers' database is fairly stable
and has few updates, this is totally fine.
So let's dig in and look at the syntax
that's used to create an index.
Before we do this actually, I should
say that many times you'll probably
use a tool such as a development environment or a client tool
for your SQL database, such that you won't actually type out
these words to create a new index,
you might just use a visual tool to do it.
But it's worth us digging in and looking a little bit
real quick because it's pretty straightforward.
So if we want to create a new index on the city and the state
of the customers, so we could say for example,
analyze all of the customers in specific cities
or in specific states.
We can do that by creating an index.
So on the customers table we'll be creating a new index called,
we'll name ix underscore city underscore state.
This will be the new index attribute that we have,
this will be the name of that indexed field
and it will be on the customers table.
And the two fields that we'll be using
or the two attributes that we'll be using in this index
are the state and the city of the customer.
So what will this do for us?
This will give us a listing of all of the different customers
from all the different states in order,
as well as all of the cities inside
of those states in order.
So I actually picked these in reverse order
from the way we conventionally say them.
I picked it so that the state is first and then the city.
So we'll actually get to the broadly right place using
the state and then we'll get to the specific city within a state
without potentially having as many collisions as they
do for repeated city names.
And so what this will do is it will make searching
for customers within a specific state faster,
so if I know that the customers reside in Massachusetts
versus New York, I'll be able to do analyses
on those sets of customers much more quickly
and create queries related to entire swaths of customers
from those states.
It will also make searching for customers
within a specific state and the specific city faster.
So every single city I'll be able to do one by one now more
quickly because they have made this state-city index
inside the customers table.
These indexing techniques are used extensively
throughout many systems.
So we can use indexing to optimize search engines,
for example.
Internet search engines are optimized
using these things called text retrieval engines.
And what those can do is they can
search through really large text corpuses
and it can index every single keyword that might be searched
with one of those indexes.
And so, each of those keywords will
have a set of associated web sites for example, that might
be related to that keyword.
And then these index entries can be
optimized based on the number of occurrences of the word
or the rank of a keyword among all the possible matches
for that keyword.
The frequency, or importance of links to a website,
or the usage of the web site, or other factors,
might actually be used to optimize these indexes
and to optimize the performance of this search engine.
So some key points from this lesson.
Indexes are used to make searching a database faster.
Indexes, if you have many of them,
will slow updates, insertions, and deletions.
So you have to prioritize the use of indexes
to the most selected attributes and not make too many of them
so that the database performance won't be impacted.
This means that we have to think about how the database will
be used in practice, how each of the tables
will be used in the business to determine the best
use of indexing for all the tables.
