
The first execution system I want to talk about
is the TMS, or transportation management system.
Now, a TMS is a suite of software
that facilitates the procurement of transportation services.
It facilitates a short term planning and optimization
of transportation activities, assets, and resources.
And it facilitates the execution of those transportation plans.
So this is one of the areas where procurement is actually
part of transportation.
It isn't always in a centralized procurement function.
So TMS over the last 15, 20 years
have really owned that side of the procurement.
That isn't that common in different functions.
And so when I talk about short-term planning
and optimization, we'll give an example of that.
But a lot of that is the load building kind of things.
And this is where you might be optimizing
not over a long range plan, but tactically for a week,
or for a month.
And then the execution is where we're
going to focus on the most.
Now, TMS's are typically segmented or specialized.
You'll see some that are mainly for domestic transportation,
and others that handle international,
because they have very different requirements.
Going international means you have to start
thinking about customs, you have to think about you're
limited in some of your options, because it's either
ocean or air.
And so it's a different set of questions
that you have to answer.
Domestic is usually a little easier,
because you don't have as many issues with border crossing.
And they also see them segmented by mode--
ocean, air, rail, full truckload,
less than truckload, parcel, private fleet.
Believe it or not, a lot of times shippers
will have different systems for each.
Now it seems kind of silly when you just have one TMS,
but in reality, people working on the ocean side
have nothing to do with people doing the less than truckload
delivery local.
Now, it's very important they have the same database
so they see the same shipments.
But the actual application that helps them manage the ocean
transportation versus say the parcel,
there's very little overlap in as far
as actual daily execution.
Again, they'll have a common database
so they see the common customers and so they have visibility,
but the interfaces will probably be very different.
So the core functionality, and not all systems
have all these things, because not all shippers
need all of these--
you can think of having transportation procurement.
This is a very common add-on function to a TMS.
It helps them decide which carriers to use on which lanes
or which routes for the next time period-- usually a year.
They'll have mode and carrier selection.
And this can be used both tactically and in real-time
for execution--
so when I have this one load, which carrier do I use.
Or the mode selection is usually done
a little further in advance.
It handles all carrier communication,
whether that's through EDI transaction
sets, or through XML, or web-based,
or some other system.
It handles what's known as a routing guide.
It generates this and maintains it.
Now, a routing guide is simply a list of those transportation
providers or carriers that I will use on a certain lane.
That's all that it is.
It's usually included in the TMS electronically,
and we'll see how that's actually used.
But the routing guide is a key component of a TMS.
They might have fleet management.
If you own your own trucks for example,
you want something that helps you manage them, and determine
when do I want to use those, how do
I route those-- kind of like your own fleet.
And so not all companies have their own fleet,
so that's usually an additional module.
Most TMS's will handle the audit and payment and claims.
They'll handle appointment scheduling, yard management--
that's the movement of trailers and containers
within your own equipment yard.
And they'll handle route planning.
Should I do a multi-stop move where
I have different loads in one trailer
and I drop them off at different destinations,
or pick up on different origins?
Or do I do a continuous move where I drop off
and I pick up at the same location for a follow on load?
So these are the core functionalities.
There's a lot more, but these are the core things.
And it's all about managing the interface between your company
and the carriers.
I like to think of it as connecting also
procurement to execution.
So think if you're going to run a strategic bid,
figure out which carriers you're going
to use for your network that feeds into a routing guide
that I will use in real-time.
And when the routing guide fails, for example,
if the plan doesn't work-- the carrier plan I'm using
isn't there--
then I'd go to something called a spot market.
So this has been in use for many years now.
And so in other industries in other areas,
we call the strategic bid a reverse auction,
the routing guide is known as an electronic catalog,
and the spot markets is known as a public and private exchange.
But in transportation, it has these very specific names.
So you set up the bid for your contract rates.
Your routing guide helps you execute them.
And when that plan fails, you go to the spot market.
You can also think of the TMS as tying together your companies
order management system--
your OMS-- with the payment systems, and then the ERP.
And it also serves as that interface to the carriers--
the bridge to your carriers.
And the objective is to move products from initial origin
to final destination in the most cost effective manner while
meeting level of service.
And what we do is we execute the plan using those carriers
that we procured based on whatever
real-time information we have.
You can also think of it as transforming an order
into a completed shipment.
So TMS's usually operates in four phases.
There's a planning phase where orders come in
and you turn those into shipments, an execution phase
where you actually select and tender to a carrier
and then the shipments become accepted shipments.
While it's in transit, you're monitoring them,
you have the visibility of the status of those shipments.
When they get delivered, their completed shipments and you
reconciles.
The reconciles auditing and making sure any accessorials
are taken care of.
You pay for the transportation.
So it's a whole life cycle of an order
from being dropped from the warehouse
to final delivery and payment.

Some things you might want to think about or consider when
you're looking at TMS's, you really
need to understand how your company operates.
How do orders drop?
Do they happen at night in one big batch for the next day?
That's very common for a lot of distributors.
Or do they happen throughout the day?
Are the continuous?
This changes the way that you'd want to operate your TMS.
How much time is allocated between the drop of the order
and the must ship-- this is the lead time?
Do you have weeks, days, hours, minutes?
As you have more time, you can do more with it.
But in a lot of situations, your time
is very compressed with very short lead time.
You need to know what percentage of orders
change after they're released.
How do they change?
Does the quantity go up or down?
Do the destinations change?
Do they disappear?
Because that helps you understand what you can plan
tactically and what you can't.
What's the length of haul?
Are these longer movements?
Or are they really short local movements?
You'll probably procure them very differently.
And how many orders are in play at any one time?
Is it one at a time?
Or do you have a whole batch to work with?
Because as a general rule, as I have more time and more orders
to play with, I'll come up with a more efficient way
of transporting those--
of consolidating those.
As my lead time shrinks and the number of orders
that I can play with shrinks, than I have fewer options.
So what I'm going to now is go into two key decisions,
load building and carrier selection.
Load building is pretty straightforward,
and we've talked about these different mode
selection and carrier selection techniques.
So essentially, you can think of the situation here.
I'm in Kansas City and I've got six destinations to go to.
And you can see the requirements for each one
in terms of pounds.
And so I have options here.
And my first option is to not build
anything-- go direct LTL to each one of those destinations.
And I can figure out the cost of those.
Or I could do a multi-stop, where I drive to St. Paul,
drop off that 15,000 pounds, and then work my way
down the east coast.
Or I could do an option where I go straight to St. Paul
and go to a pool point.
And at this pool point, I do local delivery
out for those four destinations for local LTL,
and then down to Atlanta for the final delivery.
So you have all these different options
you can use for load planning.
And a TMS will help you decide which one to do.
This is more of like the tactical planning.
Again, this is where I have a batch of orders
that I can combine into different shipments.
If I have one at a time and I've got
to make a decision in real-time, you
have less opportunity to do this load consolidation,
or load building.
So this is one of the key components of a TMS--
that load building or consolidation capabilities.
Next, I'll talk about carrier selection systems.