
So let's continue our discussion of ERP basics
with talking about data for just a little bit.
So there's a lot of data, obviously, in an ERP system.
That's one of its main objectives,
to be that central repository of all data.
And we can divide these data into three general types.
Now, every ERP is going to be a little bit different,
but this is a general classification.
You're going to have some kind of organizational data
that represents the structure of the firm or the enterprise.
You're going to have some kind of master data
that represents what's known as entities.
And these could be customers, vendors, or material.
And these are things that are associated
with specific processes, such as production, sales,
and so forth.
And then you've going to have transactional data.
And this reflects the consequences
of executing some kind of process step.
If I make a sale, if I move material,
that generates a transaction where something happens.
Some process was triggered at a certain time,
at a certain location, for a certain purpose.
And so these are tied very much to business processes.
You can think about a business process as something
that's executed in the context of an organization--
we need to know the organization--
using master data.
And it results in a transactional record.
So processes and transactional data or transactional records
are very closely intertwined.
So let me talk very briefly about each
of these three types of data.
So organizational data-- again, this
captures the structure of the enterprise.
And examples can include companies, subsidiaries,
factories, warehouses, storage areas,
sales regions, you name it-- any way
you're going to divide your organization.
So here's a fictional company, ABC.
This is the enterprise.
And it has two subsidiaries--
North America and Latin America.
And then North America has three facility plants,
and Latin America two DCs.
So at the client or enterprise level--
that's the highest level--
this is, for the ERP, the universe.
So the universe would be contained within this client
or enterprise level.
Now, this can consist of more than one company or subsidiary,
but they all fall up to one enterprise.
At the company level, each of these-- a good way
to think about this is that they're
separate legal entities.
That means they have to file their own financial reports.
That's the definition of what this company level would be.
Now, they can only belong to a single client or enterprise.
I can't have a company belonging to two enterprises.
So what we're creating here is this tree structure.
And then down to the plant or facility level, each of these
is a specific facility or a set of facilities.
I could have this be the northeastern plants,
for example.
And this is where products are created,
or material is stored for distribution,
or production planning occurs, or where
service or maintenance is actually
conducted or performed.
Now, a single facility--
say a large business complex--
might have multiple plant codes.
It could be, for example, a distribution center
has three or four segments, and they have different codes.
One might be the cross dock area.
One might be the [INAUDIBLE] pick.
And so you could segment it.
Now, they can only belong to a single company,
so I can't have a DC belonging to North America and Latin
America.
Now, what I could do--
if it's the same physical facility,
I could divide it into whatever components--
in half or whatever-- and assign different codes to them.
But it's important that you keep this structure, this tree
structure.
There's no crossing.
Everything rolls up to one.
So that's the organizational data.
The master data represents all those entities
used in processes.
Remember, I said an entity could be a vendor,
could be a customer.
And most typically, it's the material, the product.
This is the most commonly used master data
file out there, the SKU master data
table, the raw material master data table.
And now different processes will use these materials
differently.
This is what makes it really complicated,
because it's not really one set of data.
Different processes will need different views
or different perspectives on the data.
We don't need everything for every process.
So when I'm looking at this material master
and I'm in the Warehouse Management System, the WMS,
I care about certain things.
I care about the packaging, the cube, the weight,
things about the physical size to put it away.
When I'm looking at sales data, that
doesn't concern me as much as the sales
price, the discounting policies, things along those lines.
So every different process will have a different perspective
or view of the material master.
Now, the other interesting thing is
each of these materials have different types.
You can think of many, many different types.
Different versions of ERPs have different categories,
but they all have the three big ones--
raw materials, semi-finished goods, and finished goods.
These are like classic definitions.
Now, you'll always have more, finer-detailed ones,
but you'll typically have these three big ones.
And then you might also have something
called material groups.
And this is where I can collect different materials
into a similar or similarly-used set of items.
So for example, if I'm manufacturing bicycles.
I might have a set of material that's used for a certain bike.
I can classify that as a group.
Or I can classify, say, a certain type of bicycle--
say mountain bikes versus road bikes.
I can make separate groups for those.
And it's just a convenience.
So if I wanted to order based on an increase in sales
in a certain type or category, it'll
apply to all the products within that collection.
And there's just terms that you do for the master
data for materials.
The third type is transactional data or transaction data.
And this, again, reflects the consequences of a business
process being executed.
And it's a combination of the two other types
of data-- the organizational, the master,
as well as the situational.
So a certain organization is moving product from Plant 1
to Plant 2.
I need to know the material that's being involved.
And I need to know who, when, and where.
So this puts a time stamp on it.
And so now it's actually something that happened.
It's an action.
And so there's two types of documents
you can think of here.
One is a transaction document that
is used external to the ERP.
Think of a purchase order or an invoice.
This is something that lists something that happened.
It's recording a movement of goods or a sale of goods as
opposed to a virtual document.
Anytime I do a financial transaction,
that will create a transaction internal to the system.
I might want to print those all out, but very rarely.
And so there's two ways you can think about this.
One is those virtual documents, those internal transactions,
whenever I do something in my ERP,
versus a document that I'm going to use for external purposes--
purchase orders, invoices, things like that.