INMA BORRELLA: Let's discuss in this section
some strategic considerations for supply chain visibility--
namely, technology and collaboration.
Technology is an essential ingredient
to achieve supply chain visibility.
But it is not the only part of the equation.
Often, visibility has been conceived
as equal to the technology that will provide visibility.
This is far from being true.
And it is a dangerous path that can take you
down the rabbit hole pursuing one technology after another
in the search for the holy grail of visibility.
The recipe for supply chain visibility
includes data availability, collaboration with supply chain
partners, the right corporate culture,
and organizational design.
In our research, we have observed three common pitfalls
when trying to digitize the supply chain--
first, the Frankenstein effect, which
means trying to address problems with the specific
isolated technologies that often don't go very well together.
The second one-- technocentrism, choosing the technology first
and then looking for a business application for it,
mainly driven by the hype of the moment.
And the third one is unscalability, the inability
to expand beyond pilot stage because of resistance
to change or other reasons, which
are often organizational and not technical.

Collaboration is essential to ensure
the success and continuity of supply chain visibility
initiatives.
Internal collaboration across departments and functions
is often overlooked or taken for granted.
But organizational silos are still a common place.
And the interconnections and trade-offs
between supply chain management and other functions
are not always well understood.
For example, a better service level
will almost always come at a higher operational cost.
External collaboration with supply chain partners
is also key.
Agreements for confidentiality and data sharing
must be put in place.
And common standards for data must
be developed and implemented.
Not all tiers may have the capabilities to contribute
to visibility in the same way.
So investing in improving these capabilities for key partners
may be necessary-- for example, when we're talking
about deep tier suppliers.
Finally, boundary-spanning managers will play a key role.
Boundary spanners build bridges across organizations.
They understand the importance of collaboration,
can empathize, negotiate, and develop the right incentives
to promote data sharing and data standardization among supply
chain partners as well as measure the gains
from these collaborations.