Now let me talk about carrier communication and selection
within a TMS.
On the communication side, the primary method by which
shippers communicate with carriers--
for large organizations anyway--
are EDI, Electronic Data Interchange, transaction sets.
Now, every country has its own sets.
There's some standardization.
In the United States, they use the ones
that I'm going to say here, but the concepts are the same.
So the shipper will tender a load
to a carrier using an EDI 204.
And this is known as a motor carrier load tender.
Now, for ocean and air, they have slightly different
numbers.
They have slightly different data fields,
but the concept's the same.
It's used by shippers to tender an offer for shipment.
It can be used for updating, creating, replacing,
or canceling a shipment.
And it contains information on who the carrier is,
the timing, the required equipment,
where they want to ship to, who they
should contact at the destination--
all these different pieces of information.
Now, the carrier, if they will accept or reject--
and they'll send back what's known as an EDI 990.
And in this case, it's a decline.
But this is used by the carrier for whether they
decline or accept.
It's just a different field within the data set.
So they accept this with different information.
It might include the rate they did.
They are willing to pick it up for [INAUDIBLE]
and other information for scheduling.
Now, throughout in route, you might have EDI 214s,
and these are simply status updates.
And these are used by the carriers
to provide shippers and other interested parties
the status of that shipment.
Now, this would usually contain info
on the origin, the current location, the dates and times,
proof of delivery when it's finally delivered,
and other shipment status to include exceptions.
So this is how that usually works for communication.
Now sometimes, for the tendering,
that is actually done via the web now,
but it's not as prevalent.
It's out there, but a lot of times,
it's easier and much more efficient,
if you have sufficient volume, to use EDI.
Because remember, we talked about that.
It doesn't require any humans.
This can be system to system.
And so these updates statuses are very helpful,
because it just automatically updates.
Now, we'll talk later about different types
of communication such as GPS positioning,
because they have very different characteristics.
The EDI 214s tend to be triggered by events.
And so I've picked up the load, I've left the yard,
I've come to the new location.
So something happens and the status gets triggered.
This is different from the GPS location
that we use on, say, our cell phone, which always tells
me constantly, I'm at this latitude-longitude
at this time, I'm at this latitude-longitude
at this time.
One is providing context but it's event-based.
The other is giving constant feeds of real-time positioning.
So they have slightly different characteristics,
and we'll talk more about that as these systems are
starting to blend in next week's lessons.
All right.
So these are the transaction systems but there's more
to it than this.
So let's look at an example for carrier selection.
And this is where I'm a shipper and I
want to cover a load from the plant to that city location.
Now, I have different types of capacity, different ways
that I can fill that load.
And what a TMS will do is make a decision between these.
It could select my primary carrier.
This could be the carrier that I selected from my procurement
event to be my first call on that lane.
I could also have a dedicated fleet.
This might be my own trucks or it might be something
that I'm leasing from a company, and they're there,
available for me to use.
I could also look for something called a continuous move.
This is where I have an inbound load from another carrier,
coming to a close-by location.
And if I coordinate it right, I can say, you know what?
As you drop that one off, come across the street,
pick up this load, and then take that one.
Carriers can [INAUDIBLE] like this,
because it saves them from doing a lot of deadhead distance.
So you're marrying together loads.
You see this a lot of times with marriage of inbound
and outbound at a manufacturing plant.
Or I could also look at spot rates.
So spot carriers are out there.
I might use brokers.
So I have all these different options to cover this one load.
So what does this look like?
I've got this one requirement, this load,
and I've got these, in this case, four different types
of capacity.
Now, each of these capacities comes
with a cost, the amount of the volume I have available,
the timing, and other service characteristics.
And it isn't just for one load at a time.
A TMS will handle dozens to 100 loads,
going on that day across the system.
So what the carrier selection process is doing
is actually an optimization.
We're trying to find the best fit.
And that could be the lowest cost, and it's a matching.
It's known as a matching algorithm.
Right?
Bipartite matching-- I'm matching one piece of capacity
to each load.
And so we've actually done this similar problem
and solved this when we talked about the transportation
problem.
So within the heart of a TMS in execution,
there is a very fast optimization process going on,
which is matching to the lowest cost or, in some cases,
the best-fit form of capacity to a load requirement.
Now, it doesn't always match exactly,
because sometimes the primary doesn't accept.
So there are processes built within the TMS.
Remember, this is more of a workflow
now, because I'm down at execution.
And so we've shown this before in a previous class,
but I just want to reiterate it.
So this is how TMS interfaces with the order management
system.
An order or load gets dropped, they select a carrier
from the routing guide, they tender to the carrier,
and if they accept, we're done.
But a TMS can also have built into it different logic
for different work rules.
So let's say the primary carrier does not accept.
Then, we look at the lead time.
Is the lead time greater than the minimum that I need?
If so, I go back to the next carrier in that routing guide,
because usually, it's priority listed
in terms of my primary carrier, my secondary, my tertiary,
and so on.
But if they in turn don't accept it
and I keep going through here, and my lead time
gets shorter and shorter, I might
want to go to another format.
And this is where you can escalate and maybe
go to a set of carriers I have as back-up carriers.
And I can offer it to multiple carriers at one time,
and the first one who responds back gets that load.
Or I could do something where I say,
here's the price to this set of carriers and the first one
to accept it, or I let them pick the price.
So there are all these different mechanisms
that can be embedded within a TMS,
and the whole purpose is to have a workflow that's
automated to make sure our carrier is tendered
to each load.
So at the end of the day, you might
have to go through a couple cycles,
but hopefully at the end of the day,
you'd get a carrier to accept that load.
Now, most TMS's, especially for surface or trucking
transportation, have some level of this functionality.
And what it does--
it's known as many different things,
but automated escalation is one of the most common names.
And so typically, you want to go out to the primary.
If they don't accept that, you go to the backups.
If they don't accept it, you go to other carriers
where you might already have existing rates.
These are your backups.
And then, you might allow them to set their own prices
or go out to the public market or the spot market,
or maybe to a broker.
And what this does is, the number of carriers
increases as I go out from my primary all
the way to a public market.
And the range of pricing changes dramatically, too,
depending on whether it's a very tight market or a very
loose market.
But what we've done is, we've built in the TMS
a workflow process that handles the assignment
of a carrier to a load, based on different characteristics.
We saw an optimization approach, and then we
saw a workflow approach, in case the carriers can't take it--
that there are rejections, which are
fairly common in a lot of transportation areas.
So let me tie this all together, because these approaches--
and more systems are being more flexible here.
So what I have here is a two-by-two matrix,
and on the horizontal is how on pricing each load and whether
it's contract, set ahead of time,
or the price is set at the time of the tender--
kind of, a spot.
And then, on the vertical, I have,
how do I select the carrier?
Static means it's been selected ahead
of time for that lane in a procurement event.
So I know that Carrier A is always
going to be my primary on lane 27, for example.
Or dynamic-- do I decide which carrier
to use at the time of the tender,
when the load is dropped?
And you can see at two-by-two I have four options here.
And you can think of these as actually three tiers.
The first tier is where I have static assignment at a contract
price.
And this is-- in the United States, 80% of truck load
goes this way.
You set up a contract.
you establish your primary carriers,
you get a rate that's good for a year,
and that's what you go with.
Why?
Well, it's good for budget planning, its consistency.
It makes a lot of sense.
Now, the next tier is where you loosen that up a little bit.
Maybe you decide which carriers you're
going to use-- a pool of carriers in this bottom right
quadrant.
But I let the pricing be dictated
by the amount of volume going through each week.
And so I might have a set [? of ?] carriers,
but as the volume increases, I might
be willing to pay those carriers a little more.
So its tiered, based on volume.
This is how some companies used to do this
in the late 90s, early 2000s.
In the top left quadrant, you might
have something where my price is set,
but I don't select the carrier until the time of the tenders.
So I might have a group of carriers
who have agreed on a price, but I
don't pick which carrier until the time
of the tender of that load.
That's less common, but it is out there.
And then, the final one is where you have dynamic pricing
in a private exchange.
Or it could be a public exchange, actually.
So the price is set at the time of the tender,
and the selection of the carrier is that time of tender.
So that's highly variable.
So when you look at this, you have different percentages
of the portfolio that a shipper will
have in each of these tiers--
the contract, where you're using the routing guide,
some increased flexibility or the spot.
And what you see is that a TMS should
be able to handle all three of these tiers--
setting up the routing guide, doing the procurement event,
and managing off that routing guide,
but also being able to escalate to that spot
market for dynamic pricing in a private or public exchange.
So this, kind of, summarizes the carrier selection process
that should be handled within a TMS,
and most large-scale TMS's do have this functionality.