
Welcome back.
In this segment, we're going to talk about databases and data
warehouses.
And up until this point in the course,
we've been talking all about databases
and best practices and techniques
for how to build databases that are relational
and that have the capability of doing online transaction
processing, or OLTP.
But there's a whole separate set of the world
called data warehouses.
And these are another choice to store your data.
And they're optimized for online analytical processing, OLAP,
O-L-A-P.
And while the design and intention
for using a data warehouse is a little bit
different than a traditional database,
these two things OLTP and OLAP have quite a bit in common.
So we'll talk about the similarities, but also
the differences, and when the right times to use
them are for your applications.
Each of these techniques has pros and cons.
So they're ideal for different purposes.
They have different performance requirements.
We'll go through those and understand
them a little bit better.
So let's think about some of the different use cases that
are involved and compare what OLTP
would be good for versus OLAP.
So what OLTP again, remember, that's
Online Transaction Processing.
And it really relates to just plain old relational databases
the way we've seen them before.
And OLAP, we'll be talking about.
That's the thing that's going to help us do analytics
and processing on our data offline in bulk or in aggregate
and in really large cases.
So if we think about OLTP, this is the thing
that we'll be using to manage our real time business
operations.
This is going to have the customers' database
and the orders database.
And this is the thing that's going
to get updated every time we get a new customer in our system
or we have a new order that's placed.
These will be the things that happen in real time,
and they'll have real time implications.
So we'll have to be thinking about those performance
applications, like what index is, for example, and things
like that.
OLAP would generally instead be used
to perform analytics or reporting.
And the structure in the system that will be used for these
will actually be a little bit of a different design
for the database layout.
So we'll talk about that later.
So if we think about OLTP, these really
support the implementation of key business tasks.
OLAP, on the other hand, is really
all about supporting data driven decision-making.
So this is going to help us look through our data in aggregate
and do queries that we just really
couldn't do in real time.
It's going to help us look at all the orders
that are placed over the last year
and compare them to the year before, go down deeper
and understand what are the different characteristics,
for example, of the customers that placed high profitablility
orders versus low profitability orders.
So for OLTP, we might be doing transactions in an online store
or actually sending goods from one warehouse to another
electronically.
For OLAP, we might be doing things
like data mining or machine learning applications,
which we'll talk about later.
For OLTP, we'll be looking at the dashboard
health of the business over the last few days or hours.
So we'll be getting reports that are really local in nature
and are fast to run.
OLAP would be focused more on forecasting based
on historic data or understanding very large scale
trends that would take lots and lots of records for us to do.
For OLTP, concurrency, or the ability
to do multiple things in the same time window,
and full transactionality are really important.
For OLAP, very often concurrency is not important.
We're just going to be focused on getting data
whenever we need it and whenever it's available.
So to summarize, on OLTP, Online Transaction Processing,
we have all of the database types
that are really for essential business operations.
These are the things that handle the transactions
that we want to do with our customers, transmit data
for our clients and vendors and things like that.
These are essential streamlined activities.
They tend to be more closed and more structured.
And for Online Analytical Processing,
we're looking at longer term analytics
and reporting and not using data that's
directly important for our essential business operations.
And based on the differences in the use cases that we
have for OLTP and OLAP systems, there
are actually some pretty key differences for implementation.
So OLTP, for Online Transaction Processing,
we're optimizing the database for writes primarily.
And these might come in the form of updates or inserts.
This is for essential critical business data.
We want to be able to write values very quickly.
And for OLAP, we're very interested in optimizing
for reads.
We want to make retrieval of data very quick
so that it can be done on very large datasets.
In OLTP, the databases tend to be normalized
using the normal forms they've already covered
with few duplicates of data.
And the whole point of this is to make sure
that we don't duplicate our business data so it doesn't
get out of whack with reality.
For OLAP, we're a little bit more relaxed about this.
We have maybe denormalized databases, which we'll
talk about in just a minute.
And we may have many duplicates of data values.
And this will allow us to make specific types of queries
very, very fast.
In OLTP, we generally have few indexes
because remember, the more indexes we have especially
in a system that's dedicated to writes
or updates or inserts, the more time
it will take to update all those indexes.
So we'll have many tables for our normalized database,
and we'll have few indexes.
OLAP is pretty different.
We'll index as much as we can and maybe even have fewer
tables because more of the data will be redundant,
and there will be more columns in each table.
In OLTP, we'll be optimized for really simple queries.
We'll be getting all the orders for a specific user
or updating one value for a specific order.
Where with OLAP, we're going to be
open to very complex queries.
We might be asking some business question
about how the seasonal effect changes
the production or the cost of specific types of goods
or how it changes the profitability of specific types
of orders that include seasonal differences in consumption.
For OLTP, it'll be uncommon for us to store metrics or values
that we might derive from our existing data such as, averages
or number of transactions per month for specific stores.
We probably would almost never do
that in a normalized database.
But in OLAP, it's common to store derived metrics.
You might be really curious about how
the number of orders per month per store
changes over time among all of your stores.
So you can store that type of data
and make these queries in aggregate much more quick.
In OLTP, our whole goal for performance
is to make sure that we have a very fast database
for small writes and simple reads for OLAP the goal is
different.
It's designed to be very fast for reads and large writes,
and it can be slower to do essential core business data,
and we don't have to worry about transactionality,
and we don't have to worry about duplication of data as much.
There are some differences in how we normalize data that
might go in a data warehouse.
There's this thing called a star schema,
which is pretty common in OLAP.
And they're extensions of this called the snowflake schema.
And in star schema has an essential set
of facts that we record.
So for example, the fact table might just
be a historical record of any shipment that
goes to any customer, and it might
include some really basic data such as, the price of the order
and the locations of where the customers
we're shipping the items to.
And so those simple facts would be stored
in a single central table.
And then there would be a bunch of dimensions
that would be coming off of this single fact table that
would explore one whole avenue of some piece of data,
one facet of data related to shipments for customers.
And so for example, we might have a date dimension,
which has the full date or the year
or the quarter or the month or the week.
Again, notice those aggregation factors,
which we probably wouldn't have in a fully normalized database.
We're going to be storing statistics or metrics
about our data or consumption in one of these dimensions.
And this dimension will be related to all the changes
that we might have of all the shipments to the customer
over one of these dimensions such as the dates
that things were shipped to customers.
We might have something about the carriers.
A carrier dimension might have which carrier was used,
the type of freight, the address or the location
of the distribution center.
So we'd focus that additional set
of facts that might not be a fully normalized separate table
but will be really useful for describing
some dimension or some detail about our shipments
to customers.
Similarly, we could have a customer dimension.
We could have the name, the address, maybe the income
bracket or percentiles based on demographic data
from the census.
So we can have a whole dimension that's
dedicated to details about our customers,
maybe things we got from a survey of our customers.
So the key difference here is that we
have not a fully normalized database,
but we have the focus on one table of facts
and then explore specific dimensions
from that fact table.
So some key points from this lesson,
data storage in a production database
tends to be optimized for core essential business operation
tasks.
So we want to make sure that when a customer is on a website
or interacting and sending data to a vendor,
that that happens very quickly and that the data never
gets out of whack.
We want to make sure that the databases are fully normalized
and that the database contains only the core things it
needs to do the job correctly for business operation.
But when companies are interested in analyzing
their data, they may not want to run big queries
on their core operation database.
They could risk performance of that database.
They could harm that database potentially
in the course of that analysis.
So data warehouses have now become very common for using
and for optimizing our use of our data
for analytics in our company.
We store a separate copy of the data in such a way
that it can be very useful for analysis
and much faster to answer more complicated questions.