
So let's wrap up our discussion of the basics of ERPs
with communication.
And so the question is how do ERPs communicate to each other,
or how do companies communicate.
And this is known as business to business, or B2B communication.
And this is where you connect between manufacturers,
wholesalers, and retailers, and every business
is a link in that supply chain.
Now, compare this to what's known as B2C,
or Business to Customer communication.
And these are sales transactions between a firm and an end
customer.
And this has been growing in importance over the last 20,
30 years since the late 1990s when
e-commerce started taking hold.
Prior to this, most business-to-customer
interaction was at a retail store.
With the online component, it changed things.
Even with that, though, the volume of B2B transactions
dwarfs that of B2C.
It's much, much larger.
Now, regardless of whether you're
trying to communicate business to business or business
to a customer, you're trying to do two things.
You're trying to make it faster, and you're
trying to make it more valid.
You want to increase the fidelity,
so decrease the amount of errors in that transaction.
Now, for B2B, this is achieved primarily
through EDI, or Electronic Data Interchange.
For B2C, we tend to use websites or email,
because you have to interface now with a human.
Because EDI-- Electronic Data Interchange--
is a beautiful thing.
It's essentially computer-to-computer
communication, an interchange of strictly formatted messages.
And these represent documents other
than monetary instruments.
You're not going to move money via EDI.
That's a different system.
However, some important things here--
it's important that you realize it's computer to computer.
That means there's no person involved.
There's no human intervention in this process.
That makes it much more efficient.
Now, it also only communicates strictly formatted messages.
What this means is that these transaction sets,
these EDI transaction sets, are very specifically laid out.
Every character matters, every place.
So it's like a--
it's not like a freeform message content.
There are other standards, like XML.
But EDI is very rigid, and you need
to follow exactly the right format for a specific EDI
transaction set.
And we'll talk more about that when
we talk about transportation management
systems in a future lesson, because they
become very important then.
But EDI is a great workhorse, and it's
how the vast majority of information
is communicated between systems, between businesses.
So let's give an example.
Let's say I have two companies.
The Red Company uses Oracle as its ERP,
and the Blue Company, X, uses SAP.
And suppose the Red Company wants to place an order.
They send a purchase order out from their Oracle ERP
through a gateway.
And I'll explain what this gateway does in a second.
And that turns it into a purchase order
in a specific EDI transaction set to Business X's gateway.
That then translates that into SAP,
and they can translate a confirmation or cancellation
back, and that could generate something back
to the Red Company's ERP.
They could also send along an estimated time of arrival,
or an ETA.
They could also potentially have a cancellation
coming the other direction from Oracle.
They could send an advanced shipping notice and then
message of an order receipt.
So each of these arrows in between the Business
Y and the Business X gateways represent an EDI transaction.
And it's part of the process.
Usually, a process will trigger these different EDI
communications.
And so this is the way that ERP systems communicate.
And they share this in near real time information.
Now, it's not exactly real time, because they
tend to get batched how they're transmitted.
And we'll talk more about this in a later lesson,
about having instantaneous data versus batched data.
Because EDI is essentially happening
when something happens.
A purchase order is released.
An estimated time of arrival is given.
An advanced shipping notice is given.
So it takes an action.
And we'll talk more about that when we get to transportation
management systems.
The data is usually translated and validated
before it's imported into the ERP system.
And any information can be shared
given the appropriate data fields are captured.
Now, typically, each of these EDI transaction sites
are very specifically defined.
So it's hard to squeeze in more data there,
but it's something that a lot of companies try to do.
So there are other pieces of information
that businesses want to share.
And so we'll talk about different ways
that that can be done.
But let me give you an example of communication that's B2C.
And so I have this person here on the left,
and they want to place an order.
And that goes through some online retailer.
Well, what the online retailer is going to do
is send a confirmation back.
Got your order.
And then they're going to send something
to the 3PL provider, who might be providing fulfillment.
So the 3PL will provide a tracking number back,
and that will get turned into a shipping confirmation
that the online retailer sends back to the consumer.
And they might want to do a shipment tracking status,
and that will trigger an update from the 3PL provider.
So you see this interaction back and forth--
communication between a person and two systems.
Now, the first set of transactions are that B2C.
And that's web to machine.
The intermediate are B2B.
Now you see why the B2B will always dwarf the B2C--
because every B2C communication from a consumer
to the business, or vice versa, has a parallel or shadow B2B
interaction, because it's talking
to another system itself.
So imagine if you didn't have that EDI
with that B2B integration on the right.
So the online retailer-- think of it being siloed
in the company example we had in the very start of this lesson--
would have to call up or somehow confirm with the 3PL
that actually something is moving
and get the tracking numbers.
There's potential errors for data entry,
extra costs for that contact, and the coordination costs
with the 3PL itself.
So you can see how the communication--
having this EDI communication, machine to machine--
is so powerful-- because it doesn't
require human intervention.
Now, when we talk about implementation
in a future lesson, we'll see the dark side of some EDI,
because they are so rigid and so standardized that sometimes it
takes a lot of time and effort to really make
that fit your process.
And many times, companies will want
to have a little bit of the other information put in there.
And as soon as you break away from the rigid standard,
it takes more time to implement.
Because now each of those gateways
that we showed in the previous example
need to know what's in, for example, Character Space
32 that isn't in the standard EDI format.
It's done, but it takes a little more time
in the implementation.
The big takeaway from here for communication
is that anything that's B2B is primarily EDI.
Anything dealing with business to consumer
is usually web-based at this point.