
Hello, everyone.
Welcome back.
Today we'll be starting a new topic, machine learning.
Machine learning is all about trying
to understand what is actually driving signal in our data
when our data sets are really complicated
and are more complex and large than we can ordinarily handle
with regular techniques and mathematical techniques
like linear regression.
So first let's ask, what is machine learning in general?
Machine learning is sometimes called
"Artificial Intelligence," or AI.
It's also sometimes called "statistical learning"
depending on what the application and the model
is that were being used.
And machine learning generally is really
the field of trying to make algorithms
that can be run on computers that can understand and make
inferences from really complex, large data sets.
And you might ask, well, we've seen things like regression
before.
And we know that those techniques, like regression,
can help us look at historical data
and try and come up with a correlation
that maybe a best fit line, for example, that would help us
make forward predictions or predictions on our new data
sets so that we can make inferences
from our historical data.
How does that differ from something
like machine learning?
And the answer is that machine learning
is a whole set of different algorithms
that are very good in specific applications
and with specific types of data.
So for example, if each record in your data set
is really related to one another, and all of features
predict in the same way for each of the records,
then something like regression works perfectly.
But if your data set is segmented in different ways
such that the correlation between the variables
is different in different segments,
then something like machine learning
can work much better to build a more complicated model that
can understand the different characteristics
of the different segments of your products or your orders
or whatever.
And so the next question we want to ask
is, what are the different classes of machine learning
algorithms?
We're going to focus our efforts on two major classes of machine
learning algorithms, supervised learning algorithms
and unsupervised learning algorithms.
And the major difference, as we'll go through later,
are just whether or not you have specific outcome
data for each of the different types of records
that you want to assess.
And the last thing-- maybe the most important thing--
is how do we use machine learning approaches to make
inferences about brand-new examples or brand-new
pieces of our data set?
So if we get new orders in, and we
wanted to understand something about them--
something about their potential profitability, for example--
how do we make inferences about them?
So we'll cover a whole range of techniques
about how to do this with different algorithms, how
to train a specific machine learning model so that we can
actually plug in brand new data through that model
and then make forward predictions.
First I wanted to just do an overall review of regression.
We're not going to go into the details of regression.
But what we're going to do is think about the input
variables and the output variables
and how they work to make predictions.
So when you make predictions with linear regression,
remember, linear regression first
uses all of the values of, say, one or more variables
to make a prediction about the value of just one outcome
variable.
So the input variables remember, they were known
as the "independent variables."
And the output variable is known as the "dependent variable."
And so some examples of this might
be that we wanted to predict the price of a car
based on its input variables, or independent variables,
of weight, horsepower, or, say, other characteristics.
Or we want to predict the profit of an order
based on the price of the items, the number of items,
the shipment distance, the shipment weight, or maybe
other characteristics.
What's common about these examples
is that we're using the values of a whole bunch of input
variables, or independent variables,
to make predictions about one output variable.
So how does linear regression fit all of the historical data
to understand how to make forward predictions?
Remember, what it does is it looks
at all of the different input variables.
And it tries to fit a line between them
so that it understands, what is the consequence
of having a specific input variable toward having
a specific output variable?
And so the output of linear regression
is that you get coefficients for each independent variable.
And these coefficients tell you a measurement
of how important each independent variable is
toward contributing to the prediction
of the dependent variable.
Remember that the output also includes
some metrics to assess how well the model actually
fits the data.
And so a model, remember, that fits the data really well
is more likely to make accurate predictions about new, unseen
data.
So let's say that we were doing a linear regression
on a whole bunch of automobile data examples
to be able to predict the output price based
on different characteristics of each automobile.
The magnitudes of each of the estimated coefficients
tells us which variables are most
important for predicting price.
Negative coefficients would be associated
with variables which might lower the price and vice versa.
And for example, in this one variable,
we see that the particular mix and features of the engine
design seem to be very important for discriminating
and predicting price.
It's really important to mention, though,
that the magnitudes of these coefficients
only tell us something with respect to one another
if the underlying data are normalized first
or if you consider the impact on each coefficient with respect
to the values of each of the attributes.
And so if you looked at this regression model,
you might ask, how good is it?
And you see that all the points seem
to fall really close to where the line is.
The r squared, or the correlation coefficient,
details might be very, very good for this type
of this regression, indicating that if you
do a really good job of fitting the line to the points,
you're probably going to do a really good job of predicting
new, unseen data.
So each new data point that might come in here--
say, some here and here or here--
will probably be really well fit to the model
because they're probably-- if you sampled
these really accurately and they're not
a biased subset of the samples that you expect,
you're probably going to do a good job
of fitting the previous model because of how well-correlated
all the previous points were.
Conversely, this type of plot, if you see something like this,
is probably not a good candidate for a linear regression.
Maybe there's something more complicated going on.
So something here might be good for machine learning
because there might be different characteristics that are not
actually plotted on these two axes that
are indicative of correlations among the data sets that
actually predict some output variable.
So some key points from this lesson.
Regression models estimate the importance
of one or more independent variables
in terms of predicting the output variable.
Using coefficients calculated from historic data,
a regression model can be used to make predictions
about the value of outcome variables for new records.
And this estimation and prediction approach
is exactly the same thing that we'll
be applying when we use more advanced machine learning
algorithms.
We're going to be looking at historical data,
training a model on that historical data,
and then using that model to then predict forward new points
that we observe in our ongoing operations.