INMA BORRELLA: Access to information is
the first step to achieving any kind of visibility.
The information must be captured and transmitted
among different business partners.
Capturing data usually involves creating a log
for a physical item in the digital world
so it can be recorded in the information system.
This is often done through Automatic Identification
and Data Capture technology, also known AIDC technology.
There is a myriad of devices that fall within this category,
ranging from the cheap and passive barcodes
to the more sophisticated and expensive
cellular connected sensors, with many other options in between.
Let's explore some of these technologies.
Barcodes, which everyone knows, are passive tags
that need an optical reader to transmit any information.
A barcode is like a license plate
that is linked to data files.
There are many different types of barcodes following
different standard encoding.
They can be one-dimensional--
the typical series of vertical lines
found in most packages and products that you buy--
or two-dimensional, such as the QR codes, which
have become popular in marketing tools
to link to web-based information.
A curious fact-- the first barcode had a bullseye design
and was invented in 1948 by two students named Norman J.
Woodland and Bernard Silver.
They wanted to provide a better method for retailers' inventory
management and customer checkout.
Their invention was patented in 1952,
but it was widely impractical due to the limitations
of the technology of the day.
It took 20 years for the invention
to be adopted by industry.
Barcodes must be read with an optical reader,
usually operated manually, although advances
in machine vision and optical character recognition
are making it possible to automate
the inspection of barcodes, labels, and even
text on products and packages.
This technology uses machine learning to recognize text
in digital images and can process large amounts of data
quickly and accurately.
Another group of AIDC technologies
is contact memories and magnetic devices,
just like the technology in your credit card.
These technologies act as a license
plate, such as the barcodes, but also allow
for some data storage.
They are read by contact with a reading device.
Then we have RFID.
RFID tags use either a passive chip,
which responds to a reading device,
or an active chip, which transmits information actively,
to encode small amounts of data.
Passive tags are the most common.
They report an identification number or other short data
when read by an electronic device,
like a wand or a gateway, like the security gate
at the front of a retail store.
RFID systems became quite the rage
in the late 1990s and early 2000s.
But privacy concerns and high implementation costs
tampered down the hype.
Data loggers are common in the cold chain
space, where products must be maintained
at a specific temperature.
These devices range from just known indicators
and simple electronic devices that capture
and record data to more complex devices that can signal alerts.
The most common type-- the USB logger,
a small device that samples the ambient temperature
and records it on an internal memory chip.
When the package arrives at the destination,
the receiver removes the device and that loads the data
for archiving.
The device sometimes also has a visible indicator
to tell the receiver whether there has been a temperature
excursion during the trip.
Finally, we have devices that transfer information
continuously, allowing to monitor
the status of each shipment.
These devices go from simple GPS trackers
to more advanced and expensive cellular-connected sensors
that can identify, communicate, and store information
about location, temperature, light, humidity, and shocks.
If we were to classify AIDC technologies according
to storage capacity and data access,
barcodes would be at the bottom and cellular-connected sensors
at the top.
But this does not mean that cellular-connected sensors
are a better solution than barcodes.
Barcodes are very cheap and can be embedded in every SKU
to be traced along the supply chain.
Cellular-connected sensors, on the other hand,
are expensive and useful for tracing shipments
that need to be under a controlled environment
to guarantee their quality.
Each technology is a better fit for a different need.

Data transmission is achieved through Inter-Organizational
Information Systems, also known as IOIS.
The most common IOIS by far is the Electronic Data
Interchange, most commonly known as EDI.
EDI technology was created in the 1960s
to manage army shipment supply chains.
But it did not experience widespread integration
in business supply chains until the '90s.
EDI was a revolutionary technology
that facilitated early globalization.
Rather than relying on slow postal services,
EDI enabled instant long-distance communication
in an era before the internet.
EDI relies on standard messages that
are batched and transmitted with a specific frequency--
for example, once a week.
Communication works in just one direction.
There is no chance to respond to a message.
These EDI characteristics imply data latency, rigidity,
and no interactivity.
EDI is still the main data interchange technology
used by businesses today.
But many wonder if there is no better
solution for business communications
in the internet age.
APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces,
can be used to allow communication among systems.
These are extremely flexible, allow
for two-way communication, and enable real-time data exchange.
But they are not a standard practice in logistics.
They may not be compatible with legacy systems,
and there are potential security ramifications.
A third solution to data transmission
is web-based platforms used by a group of companies
to share and access data.
This is a relatively novel solution
that has gained popularity since the emergence of blockchain
technology, which promises data security and immutability, as
well as customizable privacy settings
for different participants.
Let's dive a little bit deeper into blockchain technology,
since there has been a lot of hype and confusion
around it, particularly in the supply chain space.
Blockchain is a backend technology,
a data structure with certain characteristics
that make it tamper-proof.
It's been considered a promising technology for supply chain
applications due to its ability to store data securely, enable
automatic data reconciliation, immutability, and transparency,
and facilitate automatic execution of agreements, which
are known as smart contracts.
In summary, blockchains serve as a shared indisputable record
of all transactions that take place
among multiple partners in accordance
with their established contracts.
This is useful for interorganizational business
collaboration since it can increase
visibility, accountability, and trust among partners.
But blockchain is a high-cost, high-overhead storage medium
in terms of storage, networking, and also processing costs.
It is viable only when the cost is
counterbalanced by the business benefit it can generate.
Thus, it should be used mainly for storing
important data related to interorganizational
transactions among partners where trust is lacking
and provenance and visibility are critical.
