
With our last few minutes, we want
to show you a quick, fun example of machine learning in action.
And so, we're going to go to the Akinator, a web genie that's
going to help us guess.
So here we are in the Akinator.
And the person I'm thinking of is Albert Einstein,
and we're going to see if the Akinator can
guess Albert Einstein.
And the very first question up is, is your character a female?
Now, what's the first thing we should be thinking
about with this question?
Well, if we have all the people and characters in the universe
to guess, gender is actually a pretty good way
to whittle that down, right?
It's actually almost half of the characters
and people would be female and half of the characters
and people would be male.
So this would get us from 100% of our sample space
maybe down to 50% of our sample space.
So this is a really excellent discriminating question.
So I'll answer it.
Albert Einstein is male, so the answer is no.

So the next question up is, is your character a YouTuber?
And this is probably a good way to discriminate
among living people--
maybe living and dead people.
So you can imagine, this probably
is a good early question, especially
for people who are using the web for this type of game.
And so, Albert Einstein is not a YouTuber, so I'll answer no.
Is your character older than 20?
I guess the answer for this is yes,
because he was older than 20 when he died.
And the next question says, is your character
linked with sports?
No.
Does your character really exist?
Yes.
Has your character recorded any albums?
No.
Did your character die?
Yes.
Is your character American?
That's a good question.
He wasn't originally American, but he became American.
So I'll put probably.
Has your character been dead for more than 100 years?
No.
Does your character hunt ghosts?
No.
Has your character been dead for more than 20 years?
Yes.
Is your character connected to dinosaurs?
No.
Is your character white?
Yes.
Is your character a scientist?
OK, we're getting there.
Yes.
Is your character an elephant?
No.
Does your character have white hair?
Yes.
I think that's the canonical picture of Einstein.
Has your character allowed a major scientific breakthrough?
Definitely.
Is your character Australian?
No.
Does your character have messy hair?
I think we're getting there, so I'll say yes.
And he got it.
So in 19 questions, we will answer yes
to tell them that we did get--
that they did get us correct.
So hopefully this is a fun way for you
to see some machine learning in action.
The game 20 questions was a favorite of mine as a kid.
And one thing to notice I think generally
here is that we went from least specific question
to most specific question in that form.
We definitely went down some tangents.
They thought we might be a YouTuber--
that we might be thinking of a YouTuber,
that we might be thinking of a sports star.
So all those types of things were really big tangents
or branches down a tree that might have led us
to the right personality had he not been a scientist.
Finally, what happens if Akinator
can't find our character?
When you do it yourself, if you'd like to,
you might see that it happens sometimes.
You'll think of somebody and it will
take a whole lot of guesses.
And what will happen is after a while the Akinator will
say, well, why don't you just tell me who it is?
And in that case, what they do is they remember
all of the different branches that you took
and all of the different answers you went down,
and then they can add that new character to the network
that they have of possible answers.
So this is an ever-growing resource
of different questions and answers
leading to different personalities
and characteristics.
With that, we'll wrap up this lecture here.
And go ahead and work on the quick questions and also
the practice problems.
