
Now let's talk about advanced planning systems.
By this point, advanced planning systems
are part of every Enterprise Resource Planning system or ERP
system.
There are also standalone versions.
And now if you look out at the industry,
you'll see that it's called very different things
by different vendors.
Every vendor, every software company,
wants to differentiate their offering.
So they won't always call them "advanced planning systems."
They might call them "advanced supply chain
planning," "advanced system analysis," whatever.
They all have these different names
and that's more of a marketing side of things.
At the core of it, though, there's
some common functionality.
Now, these systems might have only components of these
or the software vendor might offer
all of these but as separate modules that if you get,
they can talk to each other.
So depending on what type of software vendor you work with,
these will either be one big component
or separate components that can integrate with each other.
So the common features are network design--
where should I put my facilities and where
should I flow my product--
demand planning or forecasting, production planning
and scheduling-- what should I produce where and in what
quantity--
distribution planning-- how should I distribute or flow
my product through my network--
and transportation planning-- where should I
use different modes of transportation.
Now, each of these tasks, each of these planning tasks,
you should know how to do already.
We've shown how to do these in SC0X, SC2X, and SC3X and we showed
how to do them in spreadsheets or maybe some simple software
tools.
But at the heart of it, what you did in those small toy
problems is the exact same thing that's
done on the larger scale.
They just have to use larger optimization
to be able to handle the size.
They're all using decision support systems
and underneath them, they're almost all
using large-scale Mixed Integer Linear Programs, MILPs,
which you've seen if you've taken
any of the previous courses.
So the reason why we teach the fundamentals of how
to do these models is because that's
what's underneath these larger supply chain systems.
So while there are very advanced planning systems
and there's a lot of complication to them,
at the heart of it, it's a mixed integer linear program
where you're minimizing or maximizing
an objective function and it's subject to a series
of constraints.
That's it.
All right.
So we can talk about the different functionality
but it's also helpful to talk about the timeline or the scope
and the scale.
Now, for the planning horizon, each firm
is a little bit different but usually
less than three months out, you're
not going to have a lot of what-if kind of analysis.
You're locking down your production plan.
So this is when your MPS will run, your MRP, your DRP,
to try to lock down what you're actually going
to do in the next three months.
Now, as we talked about in previous classes,
you might break this up and the next four weeks
might be frozen.
There's no change.
Maybe the next five to eight weeks out,
you might allow some kind of changes of some degree.
And the further out, you allow it a little more.
But this is the three-month planning horizon
where you have different systems that are trying to lock down
what you're going to do.
Three to 18 months out, you have this aggregated planning
and here's where you get a little bit more analysis
and a little more what-if.
You can play around a little bit.
What if I run a promotion?
What if I increase my labor?
What if I open a new plant?
What if I close a line?
Those kinds of things are used in aggregated planning models
and usually, like I said, three to 18 months out.
Greater than that, more longer-range planning,
this is where network design comes in.
You don't do network design for one month out.
That's for a longer time period.
So on any of these longer-range models,
this is where you do the what-if analysis and this is where
a lot of these advanced planning systems
really come into value because you can judge
and try to understand if you make a substantial change what
will the impact be.

And the solutions are often customized
to specific industries because you
can think of retail as being very
different from manufacturing and discrete manufacturing very
different than continuous manufacturing.
The chemical industry is very different
than, say, the consumer packaged good industry.
So what you see is a lot of these systems become
specialized for one industry or the provider
has a suite for each industry.
So underneath, they have the same optimization.
They're still using mixed integer linear programming.
However, the interface and the particulars
will differ industry by industry.

All right.
So the inputs to any of these advanced planning systems,
this is why it's tied to an ERP because that's
where most of the data is going to come from.
It can come from other systems, as well,
but from my experience, if you get any data that is not
coming from the ERP, it's hard to get
and it's hard to maintain and it's not as consistent.
You want to get as much as you can from the ERP.
And that's one of the limitations
you have with one of these planning
systems is that if it's not in the ERP
and it's data that you think you could use,
it's hard to get that.
So typically, you have current costs,
capacities for both manufacturing and storage,
your forecast, your sales orders, production status,
purchase orders, and inventory policy.
Now, from these inputs, you're making decisions, again,
using that MILP.
Across multiple facilities, time horizons,
you do a single planning run and what
generates that is typically, you have a phased approach
and your first solution or phase is unconstrained.
You want to see what would the solution look like if I really
didn't have some of those manufacturing or storage
capacities because then you want to see
what would be the optimal if I could remove those capacities.
That gives you an idea of where I
might want to add additional capacity later on.
Then you run the model constrained at the production
and storage and distribution levels
and you see where it spreads out.
And then finally, you try to set up an optimal plan
within those constraints.
So typically, you see these runs being in multiple phases
and the outputs are a series of plans.
It could be a demand forecast and a plan
for meeting that demand, part of the S&OP process.
It could be a feasible production plan.
It could be allocation of orders to suppliers, identification
of bottlenecks-- that's when you do the what-if analysis.
You can see where the constraints are being violated
and then root cause analysis to try to understand
why certain things happened.
So advanced planning systems, the big takeaway is we've
already talked about the techniques
and the methodologies.
What I wanted to do here is to see how it
fits in to the larger process.
So from here, we're going to start talking
about execution systems.