
In this lesson, I want to move beyond Enterprise Resource
Planning systems or ERPs into more specific supply chain
applications.
So let me talk about it through the evolution of these systems
because interestingly, supply chain modules predate ERPs.
So you can trace them back to the 1960s and 1970s, when
IBM first developed what they called
a bill of materials processor."
Now, this was a mainframe-based system
that used a relational database and was mainly
used to track materials for large manufacturers.
This was revolutionary because at this time,
computers were just being introduced
into large companies, into manufacturing
and other settings.
These were large mainframes, massive investments
in terms of the hardware, and software
was very much customized.
Now, over the next several years,
they've added in functionality, shop floor management,
the closed loop functionality-- all those kinds of things got
added and at the end of this time,
there was a pretty standard MRP tool, Materials Requirements
Planning.
And this is essentially, as you recall
from when we taught this in SE-2X,
is a time-phased order release system, period.
Now, in the 1980s, things continued to develop.
There was more development from other companies
and a product called MRP2 came out.
And this was kind of an advanced or next step
from the original MRP, thus the "2" indicator.
And it's referred to as a "manufacturing resource
planning system" as opposed to just "materials requirements."
Now, what this did, this integrated production
with finance and marketing because obviously,
as we know now, how I produce and what I produce really
can be influenced and impacted by finance and marketing.
Now, this fit in with a new manufacturing methodology
called JIT or Just In Time, where
you have more frequent deliveries of smaller
quantities.
So it's much faster turn so you needed that integration.
It also expanded ties to other functions, sales
and operations planning, master production planning,
capacity planning, et cetera.
And this was the precursor of the larger, more
comprehensive ERP systems that were
being developed at that time.
Now, in the 1990s, most of those MRP2 functions
were absorbed into the larger ERP suites.
As you'll see, what usually happens in software,
they either grow in functionality,
continue to grow, or they get absorbed by some other system.
So the features that were in MRP2
are actually core to ERP systems now.
We also saw a lot of introduction
of advanced planning systems.
Now, they're always called "advanced" and "systems"
but sometimes, it's called "advanced production
and scheduling systems" or "advanced planning
and scheduling systems."
So I'm just going to refer to them all as "Advanced Planning
Systems," APSes.
Also, we saw introduction of a lot
of function-specific optimization decision support
tools.
Now, optimization-based-- why were these suddenly coming out?
Well, the cost of optimization plummeted in the 1990s.
Also, the cost of computing-- we moved away from mainframes
to minis to desktops.
And so what you used to have to solve with a large mainframe
could now be solved with something almost off the shelf.
So you saw this proliferation of small niche
and silo-specific optimization tools.
And so this is when warehouse management systems,
transportation management systems,
manufacturing execution systems, inventory optimization,
optimization-based procurement systems--
all of these came out and they were usually
startup individual companies.
There were dozens to hundreds of these different companies
developing these different decision support
software tools.
An important piece of it is that these were decision support.
They were meant to be there to advise the decision maker,
not to make the decision.
Also in the 1990s, we saw wider spread adoption of ERP systems
to smaller and mid-sized firms.
It's not just for large, massive companies anymore.
Mainly what drove this, interestingly, was the Y2K bug
issues.
Now, Y2K is something that a lot of people
don't even think about anymore but this
was a major concern of firms who used computer
systems because the Y2K bug or the Year 2000 bug
was a problem that people had for some initial systems
where years were only treated as two digits.
So you'd have 1979.
You only recorded the seven and the nine.
This works great until you hit a new century, right?
And so there was a lot of work making
older systems Y2K-compliant.
It seems silly right now but it absorbed
massive amounts of resources.
In the 2000s, we saw an introduction
of more web-based interfaces because the internet suddenly
became much more amenable to enterprises.
We saw improvements in communication, XML came out,
and more recently, GPS positioning information
for visibility, wider adoption of shared or cloud-based
solutions--
this is sometimes referred to as "software as a service"
and we'll talk more about this in a later lesson.
We saw consolidation of supply chain software vendors.
All those individual companies that were popping up in the 90s
either went away or they were absorbed or acquired
by larger companies.
So what happened is there's been an emergence over the last five
to 10 years of supply chain management ecosystems
or platforms and we'll talk more about that.
And also, we saw an expansion of these ERP systems
to essentially include all of these supply chain management
functions.
So what we're seeing is that this functionality can
exist in many different places.
So we talked about extending the enterprise from firm
to firm to firm, where the CRM talks
to the SRM and the supply chain management,
they also interface.
So you have this larger enterprise, this extension,
and the systems that help you optimize this,
they can be part of the ERP, they
can be a standalone application, or part of some larger supply
chain platform or ecosystem.
And we'll talk where that falls in the decision making process
when you're acquiring software in another lesson.
But what I want to focus on in this lesson
is the functionality themselves.
And what I want to do is talk about some planning
applications-- and I'll focus specifically on advanced
planning systems--
and then I want to talk about three execution applications,
warehouse management systems, transportation management
systems, and manufacturing execution systems.
But before I dive into those, what I'd like to do
is talk about the difference between planning and execution.