
In this segment, we're going to dive deeper into model quality.
And these are questions related to how good
is the model in terms of being generalizable and making
future predictions.
There are two big characteristics
about model quality.
The first is bias, and the second is variance.
Bias quantifies the lack of ability
of a model to capture the actual underlying trend in the data.
That means that if your model doesn't capture
all of the characteristics that are going
on inside the data set, it might produce results that are off
in one direction or the other.
There are a whole bunch of reasons
why models can become biased.
One of the biggest ones is how the data
is sampled in your testing and training sets.
You can imagine if you train a model using
some biased subsample of your records
that are different than the overall records
or really small sample of records,
it would lead to non generalizable performance
for the model.
You'll be producing a model that is different than what
it shouldn't be, in terms of capturing the underlying
trends in the data.
Another major reason that bias can happen
is because the model is either too simple or too complicated.
And so this can lead to what we call
overfitting or underfitting, which we'll go through.

The second major component that we'll talk about is variance.
And variance quantifies a model's sensitivity
to small changes in the underlying data set.
So the variance of a model depends
on how it's being trained.
And if you sample subsets of the training data
and retrain the model, it shouldn't
change very much if the variance is low for the model.
So you can imagine if the underlying data
set is very representative and it's very large,
you should be able to use small portions of it
or leave a few samples out, and be able to get just
about the same model.
But the variance can go up if the model does not
capture the data set really well,
and if it also doesn't have really representative set
of samples, if there is some unusual nature
to the samples that are being used in training.
We'll go through this later.
Ideally, we're looking for low bias and low variance.
But there's a trade off between these two quantities.
If we make a model very complicated,
and we're able to really do a very good job
of recapitulating a training data
set as we did with the San Francisco and New York housing
data when we fully built the tree out to 100% accuracy--
and when we did that we saw that we got really low bias.
We were able to get 100% accuracy
in identifying the details of our underlying data set.
But when we went to go and predict on completely new data,
we changed the data set that we're using,
and we had high variance in that output.
We actually had a much lower performance,
89% versus 100% accuracy.
So you can see that there's a trade off between these two
quantities.
So the more complicated we make the model,
in general, will decrease the bias,
but will tend to increase the variance.
The next thing we want to think about
are the specific ways in which we
can pick a representative training
sample that will keep our bias low and also reduce
our variance.
And so you can imagine there--
with an error on the y-axis, this
is kind of just the overall difference
from the model from reality, and the training set size going up.
Say, we're making more and more example records in our data set
that are included for the training process for the model
so that we can look at a lot of historic data if we're here--
or maybe not so much historic data if we're here--
for building our model.
What we have over time is an improvement
in our performance on the testing
data set by adding more and more examples to our training set.
So the idea being that if we build a model with a whole lot
of examples-- say, our training set is really large--
it will tend to get just about the same error for a testing
data set as we do for training data set.
And the idea there is just simply
that if we make the sample large enough
and it really is representative when we build our model, well,
it won't be very different than the testing data at all,
and will actually be very close in terms of actually building
out an accurate model.
The difference, though, between the actual desired low
bias and the low error and the actual performance
of the training and the testing data sets is called the bias.
That's how far of who we are from the actual realistic
underlying characteristics.
So the bigger we make the training data set size,
the more chance that there is that we actually
will be a little bit biased by looking at some of those
edge cases and characteristics that
might not be wholly representative of the sample.
The goal is, though, to reduce the overall variance.
You can imagine if you pick just a few examples
to train your model, you won't actually
do a really good job of picking a representative sample,
and you won't really understand the model very well
for the underlying data set.
And if you do that, then what happens is you're testing error
is very high.
So the goal is to first get that testing error low, but not
hash out such a large data set that our process is slow
or that we can add to bias by looking at specialized edge
cases.
So a large and representative sample of the label data
should be used to train the model
and the remainder should be used for testing.
What do we mean by representative?
We want to make sure that when we sample,
we're sampling randomly and we're not
picking subsets of the sample.
What do we mean by large?
It should be large enough such that the testing error goes
down, but it's not so large that the model becomes unwieldy
or could be potentially biased.
So next we want to think about overfitting
versus underfitting models.
So if we underfit a model, it means
that our model is too simple, that it's
going to have high bias, but maybe low variance.
And so in this case, if we fit a model like this, where
we have our points that are kind of going in an arc here,
and we fit it with a simple linear model,
the goodness of fit might actually
be very good, almost as reasonable
as a noisy data set that truly followed this line.
But the model's clearly too simple.
If new points come on this arc, well,
it'll probably be somewhere along the arc.
It won't really be along this line.
So we'll be in a high bias situation,
even though the variance in this model is not very big.
Conversely, if we look at an overfit model,
the model's too complex.
There's low bias from the underlying data,
but there's a potential for very high variance for new points
that would be added.
So if we look at something like this,
where we have a bunch of different points
that are kind of close to a line,
well, if we pick a more complicated model
than a linear model, we'll be able to see that we'll actually
kind of follow through all of these points exactly.
But that's not truly what might be representative
of this underlying data.
There might not be this extra hump here or hump here.
There just happens to be a point that's
a little bit far away from the line in this situation.
And so we might have made too complex of a model
to actually be representative of the underlying data.
And this will add too high variance and low bias.
So we want something that's kind of the Goldilocks,
something in the middle, something
that's generalizable to new data, but not too simple.

The next thing we need to think about
is overfitting with respect to model complexity.
So overfitting is a more common pitfall than underfitting.
It's tempting to sometimes make our models fit better
by adding more features as we did with that San Francisco
and New York housing data set.
Remember, we were adding really, really deep tree structures,
sometimes even adding the same feature
or characteristic again after we'd considered it before.
This would lead to a really overfit model
that would get more accurate answers for the training data
set.
But then, again, would be hard to recapitulate
in a testing set data.
And this can result in a model that's
incapable of generalizing beyond the training data.
We saw this with the New York and San Francisco housing data.
Let's look at a plot of the error in the model
versus the number of features.
We're going to look at the training set error, as well
as the testing or reality of production error
that we would have in terms of using
this for forward predictions.
So the first thing we'll look at is this blue line,
the training set error.
When we had only one feature, the elevation of the house,
whether it was in New York or San Francisco,
we got some decent accuracy out of that rate.
So we got over 80%, I think, when
we got one split point that was pretty good.
And then, when we edited another characteristic, the price
per square foot, we added another feature,
we were able to get down-- get even higher accuracy.
So we reduced the error.
And as we added feature after feature,
we were able to improve the training set accuracy so
that there was no error left.
We actually got to 100% accuracy.
But in our testing if we, say, tried to use those models
on another test data set of New York and San Francisco houses,
well, in the very beginning, with just the elevation,
we'd only used one parameter of the model
and, hopefully, the set was a representative training
and testing set.
So we would do almost exactly the same in our testing
as we did with our training.
Maybe we would have a little bit less accuracy because the split
point would be moved a little bit in the testing set--
it should be in a slightly different place.
But that was-- we'd almost do exactly the same
in terms of accuracy.
As we add more and more features,
we might have a little bit of divergence
between the testing and the training errors,
but, you know, we'd stay pretty close because we had say,
captured really generalizable characteristics
about our model with the features that we picked.
But at some point we added too many features to the model,
and we got that error down to 0% for our training model,
but it was not generalizable.
We were making rules just for a single house at a time,
and our testing set error went up and up and up.
So then we ended up getting only 90%
performance, or 89% performance at the end
on our testing data set, even though we had a 100% accuracy
on our training set.
So the idea here is that there are some optimal number
of features that we can use in our model that will be general
enough so that it will be actually useful in making
forward predictions in other data sets,
and it will actually contain enough complexity in the model.
So some key points from this lesson.
Machine learning models should be trained on an unbiased data
set.
This data set needs to be representative of the variance
in the overall data set.
It should be representative generally
of the whole underlying characteristics
of the overall data set.
And it should capture just the right amount of data.
If there's any bias in the training data,
or if there are too many features included in the model,
the model is at risk of being overfit.
So if there's any bias, say, we subsample
just the wrong segments of our data,
or didn't subsample them randomly,
or if we included too many features in our models
so that we really have lots of depth to our trees
as we saw in the San Francisco and New York housing data set,
we're going to have results that are
very accurate for our training data set,
but not very accurate going forward in our realistic use.
In overfit models, the coefficients,
known as parameters, will not be generalizable enough
to make good predictions for new records.

So that was the last of our theory
that we'll be covering for today.
And I hope you look a little bit more
like this than you do like this.
This is my cat, little Sebastian.
All right.
Go ahead and look at the quick questions,
and we'll be back with something more
exciting in the next segment.