
So let's try to answer the why question.
Why do companies have or use ERPs?
And we'll do this by looking at the benefits and the drawbacks.
So let's take an example.
Let's suppose I've got a company, a manufacturer.
And let's see how a sales transaction would
work if I did not have an ERP, one
of those centralized systems, and I
had instead each function within the firm
has its own siloed database.
So what would happen?
This is the business process function for a sales.
So a customer usually contacts someone
in the sales group and requests a certain quantity
of a certain product or lines of product by a certain time.
And so sales needs to go and say, OK,
do we have this on hand?
Do we have it in inventory?
Now, if they don't have access to that database,
they probably have to call or somehow email
or somehow contact the people in the inventory group.
Now, they might have, in the sales group,
a daily update of what was on hand,
or maybe a weekly status report.
But it's not real time.
So they're going to have to contact and reach out
the inventory people and see what they have on hand.
So they check with inventory, and it turns out
they don't have sufficient inventory for this order.
What does the sales guy do?
Well, the process would probably have them then
go to production.
Can we make it in time to satisfy the customer?
So now production, they'd have to check with them,
check their own internal schedule.
Also, they would have to check inventory themselves
to see if they have sufficient raw materials or components.
They would also have to contact human resources,
because maybe they would have to add a new line
or use extra labor.
So perhaps at that point in the process, production
would get back to sales, say, you know what?
Yes, we can make that happen by the time you need it.
So sales says great.
They can confirm that.
And then they have to go to the distribution,
to people who handle the warehousing, the transportation
for the actual distribution of the product out,
and coordinate that, make sure that they can actually load
and transport the product in time.
And then finally, the sales can get logged in finance.
And then the customer can be notified of all this
by the sales guy.
So you see what happens here.
There's a lot of latency.
There's a lot of redundant checking,
because no one has real time access to each other's data.
You might have a static report or an outdated report,
but you need to physically call each other to find out what
the actual current status is.
Now let's compare this if we had a centralized ERP.
So you have the same functions here,
and the process would be a little bit different.
Sales could immediately go into the ERP
and see the status of inventory.
They could do this while they're on the phone
or communicating with their customer.
They could see that it's not there.
They could check production planning, the production
schedule, and look at the availability to promise,
and see if that has sufficient room for their product
for their customer's order.
Check with that, and they could immediately check and see
if distribution has sufficient capacity as well
for the transportation.
And it could be logged into finance.
So look what an ERP system does.
It allows the collective data to be in one repository.
It allows for instantaneous availability and use
of that data across the company.
So pretty powerful.
So let's do some benefits and drawbacks.
Well, some of the benefits came out
from our very simple example.
And so we can say that an ERP allows
an enterprise, a company, to organize, codify,
and standardize their processes and data structure.
This is important, because now I have the same structure
across the company.
In the previous siloed environment,
I might have a very different data structure
in each one of my functions.
So having it standardized makes it easier
to interchange between the different functions.
Also, notice that we're standardizing not just
the data, but the processes.
That's critical.
And that's a double-edged sword.
And we'll talk about that in a second.
But by standardizing the processes,
it makes it easier to replicate that and use
that in other parts of the organization.
Because if everyone processes, say, an order the same way,
then you won't have to treat the orders coming in from, say,
Latin America different from North America,
different from Europe.
You treat them all the same if we have a standardized process.
It allows us to integrate those pockets of information
into a single unified repository,
because pockets of information tend to make things redundant,
and they're not always in sync with each other.
An ERP allows us to make data instantaneously
visible and available across functions
for immediate decision making.
Think of what that sales rep has at their fingertips
to be able to make these decisions.
It allows you to eliminate redundant or alternative
management systems and data.
Think of all the redundant data that
was stored in all those different siloed databases,
because each of them would have to have
some kind of, say, master data on the materials, on the SKUs.
And I guarantee they wouldn't be synced, necessarily.
So it gets rid of those redundancies.
It also reduces the amount of non-value-added tasks,
such as data entry.
Something is entered once into the system, it's in the system.
You don't have to enter in multiple points.
And you can take advantage of best practices
in the standard processes.
So if you use one of the leading ERP vendors,
one of their systems, then you have
a library of potential best practices that you could adopt.
And that's something that a lot of companies
really benefit from, especially smaller-sized ones
where they're looking for better processes to scale with.
And paradoxically, it can allow you to be more flexible.
This seems very strange, but it's a great observation.
And I've noticed this when I was implementing software back
in the late '90s, early 2000.
And that is that standardization of anything
can lead to increased flexibility
and sometimes increased creativity.
Because what you're doing--
you're channelizing or channeling the standard,
so you're focusing your efforts.
Standardization means that we're doing things in a certain way,
so everyone is used to setting up their process.
It's easier to change an established process
than to change a process that's not standard.
It's loose, and it differs from place to place.
So standardization makes it easier
to influence something new, which
increases its flexibility.
It doesn't make sense at first, because you
think if it's standardized, that it's fixed and rigid.
Actually, it's not quite the case.
Because we actually see this when
we talk about communications, too,
where we have EDI or Electronic Data Interchange.
The transaction sets are very rigid,
but it forces you to be creative elsewhere.
You're not going to be creative in what
goes in each of the different buckets in the transaction set.
So a lot of benefits for having an ERP.
There are some drawbacks.
So adopting and using ERP is very costly,
and is very time-consuming, especially
for the implementation.
We'll talk about that in a future lesson
about software implementations, because that's
a whole lesson in itself.
It also allows data errors to potentially ripple and be
replicated throughout the system.
Remember, if one piece of data is put in incorrectly
at one place, it's the only source of data there.
So that could ripple through.
And so you don't have these redundant databases which
prevent rippling of errors.
They're more like bulwarks.
In this case for an ERP, all the data is in there once,
so it could have a rippling effect.
You can also limit your competitive advantage
by forcing the use of the standard--
might be best practice processes.
Because the best practice for one
company might not be the best practice for your company.
But if you have these standard processes,
then you might be forced to do something that really
doesn't make sense for your company, or changes you the way
that you operate.
So that can either be a good thing or a bad thing.
And a lot of times, when we talk about implementations,
part of the implementation process
is changing the organization to fit the processes that
are embedded into the ERP system, which
is kind of backwards.
But that's part of the implementation process.
Having an ERP, because they're such massive systems,
can make a firm reliant on a single vendor
to support these mission-critical systems.
It can lead to a shortage of personnel
with a technical knowledge of the system.
And it can result in a very high cost of system downtime
due to the wide impact.
Think about this siloed system.
If one of those databases went down,
it would affect that function.
Here, it's affecting everything.
So as you get more connected, there is a little bit of risk
there, especially through error replication as well as
potential downtime, because you have such wide impact.
So these are the benefits and the drawbacks of ERP.
Generally, most companies find the benefits
outweigh the drawbacks.
And in fact, more recent versions of the ERP--
and we'll talk about these a little later--
are addressing each of these.
And so they're trying to make them
less costly and time-consuming to implement, better ways
to introduce redundancy to minimize that error ripple
effect, and all of these other things.
So there's always improvements to the different ERPs,
but these are the major benefits and drawbacks.