
Before we get into the specifics of each
of the different systems, I want to make
sure that everyone understands and is
clear about the difference between planning and execution
because they're very different functions.
And that's why the systems are usually very separate.
So we can think of everything you do in a business
as being a continuum of tasks.
Now, what I have here, this is more transportation specific,
but it applies to any aspect.
And so the horizontal axis is time.
Right?
And so the vertical axis is the impact, or return on assets,
return on investment, the value.
Now, if I look at these different tasks-- supply chain,
strategy, network, design--
that can have massive impacts on my return on assets
or return on investment because those things change my network.
As I move to the right, I get into what's
known as execution tasks.
And this is where I handle one shipment.
And so how I handle one shipment or one order, that's important,
but it's not going to have the same impact as a whole supply
chain network design.
So if you look at the planning tasks and the execution tasks,
they really divide.
And so yes, they're all contributing.
But there's a gap between the planning and the execution.
And they're very different problems.
You solve them differently.
You use different technologies.
The gap is mainly due to that there's
a difference in the timing.
So these planning tasks, I like to think of them
as developing the sandbox that you can then
use within the execution space.
So if you don't plan for it, if you
didn't build in certain capabilities in the plans,
you don't have them available to you during execution.
And so it's important to understand
the differences between those.
So different questions are asked based on that time-frame.
Again, this is a transportation focus here.
But you can think about this for any different operation.
So you think about the three time-frames--
strategic, tactical, and operational.
Execution happens in that operational frame.
And in the strategic time-frame, I'm asking big questions.
Which carriers should I partner with?
How should I flow my products?
Should I use pool points, cross docks, or multi-stop routes?
Big questions that require a lot of investment.
At the other extreme at the bottom
are operational questions such as which carrier should
I tender this load to today.
How can I use a specific contract carrier?
How do I use the spot market?
How do I communicate with my carriers today?
So you're moving from long-range planning
to short-term operational, and so the scope
gets a lot smaller.
You can think about the approaches
because they're going to change dramatically.
At the strategic level for planning
versus the operational level for execution,
you can see the risk is very different.
If I do a network design and it's bad--
I do a poor job with it--
that can have huge impact.
So you're going to spend a lot of time.
The search time or the analysis time,
you'll spend weeks to a month.
At the other extreme, if I'm trying
to decide how to handle one order,
I'm not going to take weeks to understand
how to move that order.
I want it to be done fast.
So it's more of a management focus than an analysis focus
because the risk is much smaller.
If I screw up one order, that affects one order.
And yes, there might be ripple effects.
But it's not the same thing as, for example,
putting a distribution center in the wrong location.
So these strategic tasks, when I do this analysis,
these are non-routine.
And the focus is on finding the value,
finding the optimal location, the best flow pattern.
It's event-based.
And you're developing your plan and strategy.
This is planning.
At the other extreme is the operation.
And this is where I'm executing that strategic plan.
And it's transaction-based.
It's rules and processes because the focus here is time, right?
For the strategic planning, time is less important.
It's more about making sure you do the full analysis.
I can take weeks or months for each operational task
I might be measuring in minutes or seconds.
And so you want to automate your actions here.
It's a process focus.
So planning is a value focus.
Operational execution is a process focus.
You want to be correct and fast.
You can think of the technologies differing as well.
At the strategic level, you're going
to use much more emphasis on the analysis engine-- optimization,
simulation, all those different methodologies we've talked
about in previous courses.
You'll use communication throughout the time-frame.
But as you get down to operational,
the workflow software matters more.
How do I process transactions, having
a rules engine, compliance tracking, it's all about speed
and minimizing the amount of management time
you spend per transaction as opposed
to the other end, strategic planning--
it's all about the value.
So there's dramatic differences between planning and execution.
And that's why, when a lot of people
think they want one software system to do both,
it's hard because you're dealing with very different decisions.
All right, so now what we're going to do
is dive into each of those categories.
We're going to start with the planning systems.